Acting, BFA
Contact
Katherine McGerr, Program Coordinator
820 East Genesee Street
315-443-2669
kemcgerr@syr.edu
Faculty
Christine Albright-Tufts, Alec Barbour, Kathleen Baum, Bradley Beckman, Danyon Davis, Kathryn Fathers, Robert Hupp, Nicholas Kowerko, Celia Madeoy, Zizi Magid, Thomas Miller, Kathryn Miranda, Katherine McGerr, Leslie Noble, Ricky Pak, Whitney Pak, Hanni Schwarzlander, Blake Segal, Holly Thuma, Joseph Whelan, Matthew Winning, Ralph Zito
Program Description
The BFA program in acting takes full advantage of the resources provided by Drama Department faculty, the University, and the Department’s relationship with Syracuse Stage in order to provide emerging professional theater artists with rigorous training in performance technique, text analysis, voice, speech and actor movement. Students are immediately immersed in a program of pre-professional study in their first year, devoting as many as 18 hours of class time per week to various theater arts. Students who are interested in directing and playwriting may elect to take additional courses in these areas under drama support requirements. All students are required to take coursework in writing.
Although first-year students are not permitted to perform on stage for the public, they work on productions behind the scenes in a wide variety of jobs, ranging from running crews to assistant stage managing. From the second year on, students may audition for roles in: faculty-directed productions and scenes and plays directed by students; films produced by undergraduate and graduate film students; and productions outside the department, including Syracuse Stage productions in appropriate roles or as understudies where union rules permit the use of non-Equity actors. Equity points may be earned through work with Syracuse Stage.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Analyze a wide range of dramatic materials for the purpose of making informed choices in rehearsal about the character, story, and interpretation
2. Demonstrate the ability to listen, follow an impulse, and respond truthfully to a scene partner while making active choices under a specific set of circumstances
3. Demonstrate the physical expression appropriate to the given form and imaginary circumstances in at least three (3) different genres of dramatic material
4. Demonstrate healthy and expressive vocal use in a range of diverse dramatic material
5. Creatively synthesize the use of the body, voice, text and emotional truth in performance
6. Demonstrate the ability to participate in collaborative artistic endeavors to a professional standard
Program Requirements
Drama Requirements: 36 credits
DRA 115 - Drama in Context I
DRA 116 - Drama in Context II
DRA 121 - The Actor’s Speech
DRA 221 - Voice/Verse I
DRA 222 - Voice/Verse II
DRA 321 - Advanced Voice/Verse I
DRA 322 - Advanced Voice/Verse II
DRA 355 - Drama in Context III
DRA 356 - Drama in Context IV
DRD 115 - Introduction to Theater Production I
DRD 116 - Introduction to Theater Production II
Dramatic Literature (x2) 3 credits each
Movement Requirements: 10 credits
DRA 273 - Movement for Actors I
DRA 274 - Movement for Actors II
DRA 373 - Clown Technique
DRA 374 - Solo Creation in Physical Poetry
Acting Requirements: 30 credits
DRA 125 - Introduction to Acting I - Majors
DRA 126 - Introduction to Acting II - Majors
DRA 220 - Introduction to Scene Study (x2, 3 credits each)
DRA 223 - Scene Study with Directors
DRA 320 - Advanced Acting: Modern Drama
DRA 420 - Advanced Scene Study: Poetic Drama
Upper Level Acting (x2) 3 credits each
DRA 127 - Core Intensives
Theatre Laboratory: 0 credits
DRA 090 - Theater Lab
Seven Required semesters of Theater Lab: total of zero credits
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Academic Electives: 23 credits
Academic electives are courses that involve critical thinking and theoretical understanding as opposed to practical application, mostly in the Liberal Arts. These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, entrepreneurship, and languages, among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here. A maximum of 9 credits out of 23 can be from the department of drama.
Drama Electives: 18 credits
Drama electives (also know as drama support)are courses that are not required specifically for the student’s program of study, but which are meant to enhance their understanding of their major field or their overall undergraduate experience.
 NOTE: Students may only receive credit for a combined total of 12 credits from Independent Study or Experience Credit courses.
Total Credits Required: 124
Degree Awarded: BFA in Acting

