Addiction Studies Minor
Coordinator
Dessa Bergen-Cico, Coordinator Addiction Studies Programs
444C White Hall
315.443.0250
dkbergen@syr.edu
Description
The minor in Addiction Studies exposes students to the biological, psychological, and social aspects of substance use and addictive behaviors. Students study emerging trends in addictive behaviors with an emphasis on evidence-based approaches to prevention and harm reduction. The minor in Addiction Studies also prepares students for employment in addiction prevention programs and services. Upon completion of the minor, students will have met the New York State Office of Alcoholism and Substance Abuse Services (OASAS) education training requirements for Credentialed Prevention Specialist (CPS) and Credentialed Prevention Professional (CPP). Supervised work experience (2,000 hours for CPS; 4,000 hours for CPP) and a passing score on the International Certification and Reciprocity Consortium (ICRC) exam is required before full certification is awarded by OASAS.
Admission
The minor in Addiction Studies is open to all Syracuse University students with a GPA of 2.5 or above.  To be admitted into the minor, a student must submit a Declaration of Minor form to his or her faculty advisor, the Addiction Studies Minor coordinator, and the Dean’s office in his or her home college.
Student Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
1. Explain theoretical underpinnings of addiction in individuals, families, and communities.
2. Apply principles of prevention theory, public health, and findings from the current scientific literature in addiction prevention programming.
3. Examine the role of culture, social determinants, family dynamics, and ethics in addiction prevention practice.
Curriculum Requirements
Required Courses
PHP 318 - Alcohol, Other Drugs, Sex and Gambling: Dynamics of Addiction
PHP 436 - Ethics in Addiction Services
Choose 1 of the following
PHP 408 - Addictions in Cultural Context
PHP 412 - Global Perspectives in Alcohol & Other Drug Policies
Choose 1 of the following options:
PHP 321 - Prevention in Addiction Services or
 PHP 304 - Community Health Education and
PHP 402 - Implementing and Evaluating Health Programs
Elective Courses (choose 2)
PHP 405 - Science and Practice of Mindfulness
PHP 406 - Clinical Evaluation and Assessment of Addictions
PHP 407 - Motivational Interviewing for Behavioral Change
PHP 409 - The Impact of Addictions on Families and Relationships
Total Credits Required: 19-21

