Anthropology, BA
Department Chair:
Christopher DeCorse, Chair
209 Maxwell Hall
315-443-2200
Faculty
Mona Bhan, Christopher R. DeCorse, Amanda Hilton, Azra Hromadzic, Jok M. Jok, Heather Law-Pezzarossi, Kyrstin Mallon Andrews, Shannon A. Novak, Guido Pezzarossi, Lars Rodseth, Robert A. Rubinstein, Maureen Trudelle Schwarz, Theresa A. Singleton, John Marshall Townsend, Lauren Woodard
Anthropology explores the entire range of human experiences in the past and present. Our department offers undergraduate courses covering the breadth of the discipline, including physical anthropology (the study of human evolution and biological variation); archaeology (the study of prehistoric and historic cultures through material remains); linguistics (the study of language - its structure, historic developments, and social aspects); cultural anthropology (the study of contemporary societies); and applied anthropology (the use of anthropological methods and theory to solve real-world problems). Ongoing research by our faculty and graduate students covers a broad array of topics, from slave settlements in Jamaica to women and development in India; from religious movements in Brazil to sustainable agriculture in Nepal; from forestry in Kenya to the Underground Railroad in Syracuse. Current research sites span the globe, including South and East Asia, South and North America, West and East Africa, the Middle East, Europe, and the Caribbean.
Undergraduate training in anthropology is useful in many fields, including education, international business, law, journalism, cultural resources management and public service. For students interested in future graduate studies in anthropology, our program offers a solid ground in theory, methods, ethics and practical application.
Undergraduate students are encouraged to explore anthropology not only through coursework, but with direct involvement in laboratory research and field work. Our department has fully equipped archaeology and physical anthropology laboratories, providing a variety of research opportunities. A well-established archaeological field training program is offered each summer. Field experience in cultural anthropology is available through community internships, independent studies, and ongoing faculty research. We also recommend that students consider spending a semester or two in another country through the University’s SU Abroad Program, as a way of enhancing their major with true cross-cultural experience. For information, contact the Department of Anthropology Undergraduate Director.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Describe and explain human diversity through the application of core anthropological concepts, theories and data
2. Evaluate competing ideas and generalize from specific data
3. Conduct primary and secondary research projects on anthropological topics and present results effectively both in writing and orally
4. Apply anthropological ideas and knowledge in the analysis of real-world problems
5. Describe and apply ethical and professional principles pertinent to the anthropological research
Major Requirements
The program, leading to a B.A. in anthropology, requires 33 credits in anthropology courses. Of these, 18 credits are taken in required courses and 15 are electives.
Required Courses (18 credits)
Introductory Courses: Three courses (9 credits)
Cultural Anthropology
ANT 111 - Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
Physical/Biological Anthropology
ANT 131 - Introduction to Biological Anthropology
Archaeology - either
ANT 141 - Introduction to Archaeology and Prehistory
ANT 145 - Archaeology of and in the Modern World
Area Focus and Regional Perspectives on Culture: One course (3 credits):
Completion of at least one course from the following list:
ANT 318 - African Cultures
ANT 322 - South American Cultures
ANT 323 - Peoples and Cultures of North America
ANT 324 - Modern South Asian Cultures
ANT 325 - Anthropology of American Life in Film
ANT 326 - Africa Through the Novel
ANT 382 - Health in the Middle East
ANT 421 - Gender & Sexuality in South Asia
ANT 423 - Effects of Globalization in Latin America
ANT 426 - Cultures and Politics of Afghanistan and Pakistan
ANT 427 - Brazil: Anthropological Perspectives
ANT 428 - Transformation of Eastern Europe
ANT 446 - Caribbean Archaeology
ANT 468 - Middle East in Anthropological Perspective
ANT 471 - Religion and Society in Brazil
ANT 473 - Peace and Conflict in the Balkans: Anthropological Perspectives
Anthropological Methods: One of the following courses (3 credits):
ANT 433 - Human Osteology
ANT 442 - Methods in Archaeology
ANT 443 - Field Methods in Archaeology
ANT 444 - Laboratory Analysis in Archaeology
ANT 481 - Ethnographic Techniques
ANT 482 - Life Histories/Narratives
Anthropological Theory: One course (3 credits):
ANT 311 - Anthropological Theory
Degree
Bachelor of Arts in Anthropology
Total Required Credits: 120
Electives (15 credits)
The student majoring in anthropology is free to enroll in any course offered by the Department of Anthropology as long as the prerequisites for that course are satisfied. All students are encouraged to enroll in elective courses that are of interest to them.
At least 12 of the 15 elective credits required must be at the 300 level and above.

