Applied Data and Predictive Analytics, BPS
Contact
Associate Dean:
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs
Professor of Practice College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
 Program Director: 
Steve Wallace, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, swalla02@syr.edu
Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Description
The Bachelor of Professional Studies in Applied Data and Predictive Analytics offers students broad skills in information systems, quantitative and qualitative analysis, and data graphics and visualization. Students will be able to interpret and translate data into market-ready, actionable information. Data analytics and visualization skills are highly prized in the global marketplace. This online bachelor’s degree ties together the fields of computer science, management, and business intelligence to prepare budding analysts to derive insights from complex data. 
Student Learning Outcomes
Create data models and data warehouses

  Develop various digital graphics techniques and data visualization methods
Demonstrate statistical and predictive/applied analytics methods and applications


 Liberal Studies Core (30-33 credits)
The Liberal Studies Core gives a foundation in writing, language or quantitative skills, humanities, social science, natural science, and critical reflections. It draws upon lower-division courses in the College of Arts and Sciences.
Writing (6 Credits)
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Quantitative Skills (Choose 6-8 credits)
Complete Quantitative Skills Sequence Requirement outlined in the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.

Humanities (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Humanities Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.

Social Science (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Social Sciences Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.

Natural Science (Choose 3-4 credits)
Any course listed in the Natural Sciences Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.

Critical Reflections on Ethical & Social Issues (Choose 3 Credits)
Any course listed in the Critical Reflections on Ethical & Social Issues Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.


Students are required to select one Liberal Arts Core Course that meets the IDEA requirement
Professional Competencies Core (30 credits)
The Professional Competencies Core covers fundamental knowledge and abilities required in the modern workplace, such as ethics and critical thinking, problem solving, human relations, diversity and change management, budgeting and resource management, and teamwork. The Professional Competencies Core includes an introductory course, and a capstone experience required of all B.P.S. students. Designed to draw together issues from across the entire B.P.S. program, these courses summarize concepts covered in the curriculum and develop students’ skills in strategic decision-making that looks to the future.

Required Courses (9 credits)
BPS 144 - Orange Immersion
BPS 211 - Introduction to Professional Studies
BPS 411 - Senior Seminar
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
Choose 7 of the following (21)
BPS 303 - Introduction to Change Management
BPS 315 - Practical Financial Management for the Working Professional
CRL 319 - Global Leadership
BPS 325 - Creative and Design Thinking for Professional Studies
BPS 335 - Conflict in Business and Management for Professional Studies
BPS 382 - Leading Cooperative Negotiations
LGL 403 - Business Organizations
BPS 415 - Digital and Business Communications for Professional Studies
CRL 313 - Strategic Leadership in Professional Studies
CYB 233 - Introduction to Computer Networking for Professional Studies
HCA 425 - Wellness Consciousness
KNM 310 - Knowledge Capture and Codification
LGL 210 - Legal Research and Writing
LGL 201 - Introduction to Legal Systems and Legal Ethics
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
PPM 315 - Project Management Methodologies
PPM 325 - Project Communications and Stakeholder Management
SCP 305 - Database Management
Major Requirements (30 credits)
IST 343 - Data in Society
IST 387 - Introduction to Applied Data Science
IST 407 - Data Mining
IST 414 - Data Driven Inquiry
IST 418 - Big Data Analytics
IST 421 - Information Visualization
KNM 301 - Introduction to Knowledge Management
SCP 103 - Introduction to Computing Systems
SCP 220 - Basic Principles of Computer Programming
SCP 225 - Concepts in Digital Graphics
Electives
27-30 Credits (or as many needed to reach 120 credits)
Note:
The degree is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

