Arabic Studies Minor
Coordinator:
Rania Habib, Professor of Linguistics and Arabic, Coordinator of Arabic Program
Dept. of Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics
Syracuse University
325 H. B. Crouse
Syracuse, NY 13244
Tel: 315-443-8073
Fax: 315-443-5376
Description:
Arabic is spoken by over 300 million speakers in 22 countries in the Middle East and North Africa. It is also an official language in 26 countries, the African Union, the Arab League, and the United Nations. It is the main medium of communication in business, government, and the media throughout the Arabic-speaking world. Currently, Arabic is designated as one of the critical languages by the federal government, which has been investing substantially in increasing the number of Americans with high proficiency in Arabic.
The increasing number of students enrolling in Arabic language, linguistics, and culture courses in Syracuse University in recent years and the high level of retention of those students in consecutive years demonstrate the great demand for the study of Arabic.
A minor in Arabic will prepare students to read, write, and communicate orally in Arabic at a functional level in an international setting, and to recognize and respond to cultural patterns of Arabic-speaking peoples. It will allow students majoring in other disciplines, e.g. Middle Eastern Studies, Political Science, Business, Journalism, International Relations, Public Relations, Translation, etc. to employ their knowledge of Arabic language and culture in their future careers. A minor in Arabic will increase students’ attractiveness in the job market, especially with the present significant demand for Americans who can demonstrate high proficiency in Arabic.
Admission:
Students should have completed the prerequisite ARB 102 or equivalent.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Express themselves in Modern Standard Arabic on a variety of familiar, practical, professional, and everyday topics
2. Read and comprehend Modern Standard Arabic texts on a variety of familiar, practical, professional, and everyday topics
3. Demonstrate knowledge of Modern Standard Arabic structure and grammar and write paragraphs and short essays on a variety of familiar, practical, professional, and everyday topics
4. Comprehend most Modern Standard Arabic speakers when they speak clearly on familiar, practical, professional and everyday topics
5. Demonstrate through discussion and social interaction profound and critical knowledge of many aspects of Arabic cultures and societies, through examples from history, art, literature, religion, politics, film, and music
Curriculum Requirements:
The Arabic Studies Minor requires at least 18 credits; at least 12 of the credits have to be taken at the 300 level and above. The courses in the table below are required. Previously approved upper-division Arabic language, literature, or culture courses through one of our Study Abroad centers can be considered as substitute to these courses, with prior approval by the Arabic coordinator. The courses ARB 201, ARB 202, ARB 301 and ARB 302 should be substituted with an equivalent level or higher. Each of the two courses, ARB 336 (Arabic Cultures) and ARB 326 (Structure of Standard Arabic) could be substituted with an upper-division Arabic language, literature, or culture course at the 300 level or above, provided that the language courses are different from ARB 301 and ARB 302. If more than one upper-division course is substituted, the substituting courses should be different from each other.
ARB 201 - Arabic III (offered every fall semester)
ARB 202 - Arabic IV (offered every spring semester)
ARB 301 - Arabic V (offered every fall semester)
ARB 302 - Arabic VI (offered every spring semester)
ARB 326 - Structure of Standard Arabic * (offered once per year)
ARB 336 - Arabic Cultures ** (offered once per year)
Total Credits Required: 18
Note:
* To be counted towards the Arabic Studies Minor most of the homework and exams must be completed in the Arabic language.
** To be counted towards the Arabic Studies Minor a student must translate into Arabic 6-10 lines of each of the written assignments, as specified by the instructor.

