Art Photography, BFA
Contacts
Laura Heyman, Program Coordinator
102 Shaffer Art Building, 315-443-1033, lheyman@syr.edu
Faculty
Yasser Aggour, Doug DuBois, Laura Heyman, Susannah Sayler
Description
This B.F.A. degree program is designed for art students who wish to use the photographic image as the starting point for creative work.  The faculty recognizes that the practice of photography has undergone tremendous transformations both technically and conceptually in recent years. The programs curricula allow students to gain expertise in the full range of digital processes including image capture, lighting, post-production, and professional output. In addition, required courses and electives allow students to explore the full range of contemporary photographic practices including fashion, abstraction, documentary, and conceptual approaches.  Students are encouraged to expand their photographic practice into other fields; bookmaking, installation, video and their photographic practices into other fields: bookmaking, installation, video, and performance art are all areas of active research. Among the vast array of subjects of study offered by the university environment, photography majors who are also interested in advertising and related fields have the opportunity to take courses electives in communications, rhetorical studies and graphic design.
Our facilities include state-of the art lighting studios, digital production stations, and analog black and white darkrooms. Hi-end digital SLR’s, medium and large format film cameras, and extensive lighting equipment are also available for student use.
Undergraduate students work closely with a faculty of professional artists whose work has been exhibited and published all over the world. Students also benefit from the photography program’s close association with Light Work, a nonprofit organization on campus that sponsors an internationally renowned visiting artist program and exhibitions in the Robert B. Menschel Photography Gallery.  All our majors receive membership to Light Work which entitles use of their world-class production facilities.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Demonstrate full digital workflow from image capture to print. Shape light in both studio and on-location settings
2. Precisely Articulate Projects parameters A. Written B. Oral
3. Students will be able to conceptualize and develop projects with depth and lyricism
Program Requirements
*30 credits in Arts & Sciences must be completed as part of the overall degree.
Major Requirements: 48 credits
APH 261 - Art Photography, Introduction
APH 262 - Art Photography Introduction II
APH 365 - Photo and Media Skills and Techniques
APH 361 - Lighting for Photography
APH 362 - Art Photography Junior Seminar
APH 461 - Art Photography:BFA Senior Seminar
APH 462 - Art Photography: BFA Exhibition and Portfolio
FMA 151 - Conversations in Film and Media Arts I
FMA 152 - Conversations in Film and Media Arts II
FMA 153 - Making Media: Fundamentals
FMA 154 - Making Media: Intermediate Studio
FMA 251 - Film and Media Arts Intermediate Studio
FMA 351 - Film and Media Arts Advanced Studio
FMA 451 - Building Your Audience
Choose one of the following:
APH 561 - Art Photography: Contemporary Art and Photography
APH 562 - Art Photography: Contemporary Critical & Theoretical Texts on Art & Photography
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Studies in Culture: 21 credits*
3 credits must be in history of art
3 credits must be in history of photography
Courses classified as Studies in Culture are, in general, classes related to art history and cultural studies but also include Foreign Languages, Anthropology and World Literature. You can find a comprehensive list of approved studies in culture electives here.
*Studies in Culture should consist of 15 credits of Liberal Arts & Sciences, and 6 credits of any other approved elective.
Academic Electives: 28 credits
3 credits must be in critical theory of art
Academic electives are most courses offered outside of Art, Design, or Film and Media Arts (for example, courses offered in CRS, Arts and Sciences, Whitman, and other colleges outside of SU:VPA). These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, art history, anthropology, religion, gender studies, and writing, among others. Most importantly, they meet for a total of 150 to 160 minutes each week for the duration of the semester (usually on a two- or three-day pattern, such as MW, TTH, or MWF, with classes ranging from 50 to 80 minutes each.)
Studio Electives: 18 credits
3 credits must be in video course (VID prefix)
Required APH Elective: Choose one of the following:
APH 563  - Art Photography: Non-Traditional Modes
APH 564  - Image/Sequence: Photo Book
APH 565  - Art Photography: Performance Art
APH 566  - Art Photography: Photography and Cinema
Studio electives are courses usually offered in VPA through Art, Design, or Film and Media Arts. The content of the courses directly relates to the preparation of students for professional careers in Art, Design, and Film and Media Arts. The course content includes, but is not limited to, conceptualization, process, product, and critique of creative work in studio practice. These courses meet for a much longer time, for a minimum of four hours per week for the duration of the semester. Usual meeting patterns are: the class meets once per week for four+ hours, or the class meets twice per week, usually for two or more hours each. You can find a comprehensive list of courses that count as studio electives here.
Total Credits Required: 121
Degree Awarded: BFA in Art Photography

