Biology, BA
Contact:
Academic Support Coordinator
114 Life Sciences Complex
biougrad@syr.edu, 315-443-9139
Faculty
Yasir Ahmed-Braimah, David M. Althoff, Katie M. Becklin, Melanie J. Blanden, Carlos A. Castañeda, Heather D. Coleman, Jen Cook, Steve Dorus, Scott E. Erdman, Christopher W. Fernandez, Austin M. Garner, Sarah E. Hall, Heidi Hehnly, James A. Hewett, Sandra J. Hewett, James Hougland, L. Jamie Lamit, Katharine Lewis, Jessica MacDonald, Eleanor Maine, Lauren Mavica, Vera McIlvain, Angela Oliverio, Susan E. Parks, Melissa E. Pepling, Ruth Phillips, Scott Pitnick, Ramesh Raina, Surabhi Raina, Mark E. Ritchie, Kari A. Segraves, Robert B. Silver, Roy D. Welch, Michele G. Wheatly, and Jason R. Wiles
Students majoring in biology establish a general background in the discipline through a series of first-year/sophomore-level core courses that preview the major sub-disciplines of biology. This introductory program is followed by courses that allow the student to focus on more advanced material.
The major in biology leads to either the B.A. or the B.S. degree. The B.S. degree is intended for students interested in graduate study in biological science or the health professions (medicine, dentistry, or veterinary medicine). In addition to biology requirements, students pursuing a B.S. degree take general chemistry, organic chemistry, and calculus. Students are also encouraged to gain practical experience and academic credit through the University. 
The B.A. degree is intended for students who wish to pursue technical or science-related careers that do not require a graduate or professional degree, or careers outside of biology in which a background in science may be useful, such as science writing, business, or law. Although the first-year/sophomore-level core biology course requirements for the B.A. and the B.S. degrees are similar, there are key differences. The B.A. degree requires fewer courses in chemistry, mathematics, and upper division Biology.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. By the end of their first year, students will be able to recognize and distinguish theories, concepts and principles, as defined by the Vision and Change core, from the major sub-fields of biology including molecular, cellular and developmental biology; physiology; and ecology and evolution.
2. By the end of their degree, students will be able to analyze, synthesize and apply theories, concepts and principles, as defined by the Vision and Change core, from the major sub-fields of biology listed above.
3. Apply skills in biological research and demonstrate knowledge of the nature and practice of science.
4. Apply communication/collaboration skills relevant to biological sciences
5. Apply quantitative reasoning and methods to solve problems in the biological sciences.
6. Describe the relationship between science and society; identify ways that this has had both positive and negative impacts.
Major Requirements
B.A. Degree Requirements (43-46 credits)
To Declare the B.A. Major in Biology
A student may declare the B.A. major in Biology during the admission process or anytime thereafter by contacting the Academic Coordinator of the Biology Department.
Students cannot double major in biotechnology, biochemistry or biology. They cannot complete a minor in biology in conjunction with one of those three programs.

Core Courses (21 credits)
All core courses should be completed by the end of a student’s sophomore year.

BIO 121 - General Biology I
BIO 122 - General Biology I Laboratory
BIO 123 - General Biology II
BIO 224 - Integrative Biology Laboratory
BIO 322 - Cell and Molecular Biology
BIO 323 - Integrative Physiology and Ecology
BIO 324 - Evolution
BIO 224 cannot be omitted nor substituted. No transfer credit petitions will be accepted for BIO 224.
Upper-Division Courses (9 credits)
Students in the B.A. program complete an additional 9 credits of upper-division coursework in Biology with a minimum of 3 of the 9 credits being laboratory credits. BIO 460 Research in Biology cannot be applied as a laboratory course, only as an upper-division elective.

Math and Chemistry Requirements (13-16 credits)
CHE 106/CHE 107 - General Chemistry I with lab, 4 credits
CHE 116/CHE 117 - General Chemistry II with lab, 4 credits
AND
CHE 275/CHE 276 - Organic Chemistry with lab, 5 credits 
OR
MAT 285 Life Sciences Calculus I and  MAT 221 Elementary Probability and Statistics I or APM 391 Prob & Stats I (6-7 credits) 
OR
MAT 295 Calculus I and MAT 221 Elementary Probability and Statistics I or APM 391 Prob & Stats I (7-8 credits) 
Students with 8 credits of Advanced Placement
Students with 8 credits of Advanced Placement may omit the introductory Biology courses BIO 121/BIO 122 AND BIO 123/BIO 124. BIO 224 cannot be omitted nor substituted. No transfer credit petitions will be accepted for BIO 224.

