Cannabis Studies Minor
Contact:
Associate Dean:
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Administrative Director:
Maria Borte, Academic Program Administrator
College of Professional Studies, mcborte@syr.edu
  Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
  Faculty List 
Description:
The Cannabis Studies minor provides a foundation of knowledge across the cannabis industry including governing laws, plant science & extracts, medicinal properties, plant cultivation & harvesting, as well as business and employment opportunities. 
To Declare a College of Professional Studies Minor
Check with your home school or college to make sure you have room in your program for the required 18 credits of coursework and that you are in good academic standing.
Map out the minor with your academic advisor to ensure you have room within your schedule to complete these 18 credits prior to your anticipated graduation date.
Complete the Declaration of Minor form and return it via email to profstudiesminors@syr.edu
The minor coordinator will sign and return the form to you.
Take the signed form to your home school or college for processing. 
Student Learning Outcomes
Identify differences between marijuana and hemp products.
Define the legal and regulatory systems governing the cannabis industry.
Analyze the science behind and health benefits / risks in the use of cannabis derived products.
Explain the key components of cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, processing, and distribution.
Assess the various components of starting and maintaining a cannabis related business.
Requirements
Required Courses (18 credits)
CAN 301 - Cannabis Business Operations
CAN 310 - Cannabis Start-ups
CAN 315 - Cannabis Law, Policy, and Social Justice
CAN 320 - Cannabis Science and Health
CAN 325 - Cannabis Cultivation
CAN 330 - Cannabis Manufacturing, Processing & Distribution
The minor is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

