Ceramics Minor
Contact
Peter Beasecker, Program Coordinator

ComArt Building, 315-443-3700, prbeasec@syr.edu 
Description
The 110-year-old Ceramics Program in Syracuse University’s School of Art and Design is ideally positioned to offer a Minor degree in Ceramics to all undergraduate students of the university. With the combination of three full-time faculty, a technician, extensive facilities and highly qualified graduate students, the Ceramics Program is more than capable to provide a Minor degree.
While candidates for this degree may come from any discipline within the University, the Ceramics Program has a history of attracting students from Architecture, Industrial Design, Geology, Engineering and Business. The Ceramics Program teaches equally to the fine art major, as well as students of craft and to the many architectural and industrial practices that involve ceramic processes. The field of ceramics has direct historical ties with design, engineering, architecture, geology, business and studies in art history. Indirectly the connections broaden to incorporate literature, poetry, philosophy and politics as they pertain to the ceremonies and content that surround ceramic objects and their relevance to cultural identity.
The prospective advantage of minors working alongside majors is very exciting considering the different expertise that students from other majors at the University will bring to their ceramic work and to the content and conversation among the studio arts major population in the Ceramics Program. This has been the experience of the Ceramics Faculty over the years as they have numerous exceptional and engaged students expressing a desire to minor in this exciting and historically rich major.
Students accepted into the Minor will be assigned a faculty advisor from the full-time faculty in the Ceramics Program.
Admission Requirements:
Minimum 3.0 GPA
Must enter by the beginning of Junior Year.
Limited space available.
Rolling admission. Requires review meeting with Faculty Coordinator of Ceramics Program.
Minor Requirements
Required Courses: 18 credits
ARI 221 - Ceramics Hand-building
ARI 223 - Ceramics Wheel-throwing
ARI 225 - Ceramics Slip-casting and Mold-making
ARI 320 - Intermediate Ceramics
ARI 328 - Clay & Glaze Technology
ARI 420 - Advanced Ceramics
Total Credits Required: 18

