Child and Family Policy Studies Minor
Coordinator
Matthew Mulvaney, Undergraduate Program Director
144C White Hall
315-443-5654
mmulvane@syr.edu
Description
The interdisciplinary minor in Child and Family Policy Studies provides undergraduate students an opportunity to focus their academic work on issues related to the development, delivery, and assessment of child and family, and social policies and programs.  The minor is designed to engage students from different disciplines in collaborative learning around issues of advocacy, service delivery, and development of evidence-based public programs and policies.  Students will find the minor useful if they are seeking a career working with children and families on developing or evaluating programs and policies or considering a graduate program in a related area. 
Admission
The minor in Child and Family Policy Studies is available to all University students with a Cumulative GPA of 2.0 or above on a space-available basis. To be admitted to the program, students must submit a Declaration of Minor form to their academic advisor, the undergraduate program director of Human Development and Family Science, and their home college dean’s office.
Student Learning Outcomes
Students will gain understanding of public policy and child and family issues, and apply their understanding of healthy development to public policies and government programming.
Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
1. Explain principles of human development in families from diverse populations.
2. Analyze how research and theories are utilized in the field of child and family policy across diverse settings.
3. Critically evaluate service delivery and child and family practices across settings.
4. Assess public policy and child and family related issues.
Required core courses (6 credits)
PST 101 - An Introduction to the Analysis of Public Policy
HFS 201 - Family Development or
HFS 202 - Development of Children
Electives (12 credits)
Two elective courses from the following (6 credits)
HFS 335 - Issues and Perspectives in Early Childhood Education
HFS 395 - Risk, Resilience, and Intervention
HFS 422 - Work and Family in the 21st Century
HFS 479 - Power, Conflict, Violence, and the Family
HFS 486 - Family Life Education
Two elective courses from the following (6 credits)
PHP 403 - Public Health Policy
PST 410 - Practicum in Public Policy
PST 431 - Criminal Justice System
PST 451 - Environmental Policy
SWK 314 - Social Welfare Policy and Services I
SWK 315 - Social Welfare Policy and Services II
SWK 458 - Practice and Policy in Adult Corrections
Total Credits: 18
Restrictions:
This minor is open to all HDFS Majors and Non-Majors.
Note:
No more than 9 credits from a single department can count towards the minor.

