Civil Engineering Minor
Contacts
Eric M. Lui , Civil Engineering Professor, Minor Coordinator
151 Link Hall
315-443-3394
emlui@syr.edu
  Andria Costello Staniec, Civil & Environmental Engineering Department Chair
151 Link Hall
315-443-1057
costello@syr.edu
Faculty
Riyad S. Aboutaha, Shobha K. Bhatia, Elizabeth Carter, David G. Chandler, Ruth Chen, Andria Costello Staniec, Charles T. Driscoll Jr., Chris E. Johnson, Min Liu, Yizhi Liu, Eric M. Lui, Sinead Mac Namara, Aaron Mohammed, Dawit Negussey, Zhao Qin, Baris Salman, Yilei Shi, Svetoslava Todorova, John Trimmer, Teng Zeng
Description:
The civil engineering minor is designed to give students the opportunity to learn and apply basic engineering knowledge to solve problems related to the analysis, design and construction of civil infrastructure.  Students enrolled in this program have the option to focus on one specific discipline or explore several areas of civil engineering.
Admission:
This minor is available to all University students who have the necessary prerequisites (see the section on restrictions) and have a cumulative GPA of 2.00 or above on a space-available basis. To be admitted to the program, students must submit a Declaration of Minor form signed by their academic advisor, the civil engineering minor coordinator, and the academic dean of their home school/college.
Student Learning Outcomes
Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
Apply mathematics and engineering principles to solve simple civil engineering problems.
Carry out analysis and design in at least one of the following civil engineering disciplines: construction and infrastructure engineering, geotechnical engineering, structural engineering.
Analyze and interpret data and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions.
Requirements
To complete a minor in civil engineering, students are required to declare the minor using the minor declaration form, and take a minimum of six courses (at least 18 credits) as described below with a combined GPA of at least 2.00.
Core Courses (6 Credits)
ECS 221 - Statics
CEE 325 - Mechanics of Materials
Focus Areas (6 - 7 Credits)
Choose two courses selected from any one of the following three focus areas:
Construction and Infrastructure Engineering
CEE 401 - Construction Engineering and Project Management
CEE 405 - Construction Estimating and Scheduling
CEE 465 - Modern Urban Infrastructure
Any 300 level and above CEE courses on construction engineering and management (3 Credits)
Geotechnical Engineering
CEE 337 - Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering
CEE 338 - Foundation Engineering
Structural Engineering
CEE 331 - Analysis of Structures and Materials
CEE 332 - Design of Concrete Structures
Two Additional 300 Level and Above CEE Courses (6 - 7 Credits)
Restrictions
Students enrolled in this program should have taken MAT 295 - Calculus I, MAT 296 - Calculus II, and PHY 211 - General Physics I; or their equivalents.
Notes
Student who do not have the above prerequisites should seek advice from the minor coordinator before enrollment.

