Creative Leadership, BPS
Contact:
Associate Dean: 
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Administrative Director:
Michele L. Mooney, Academic Program Administrator
College of Professional Studies, mlmooney@syr.edu
Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu. 
Faculty List 
Description:
The Bachelor of Professional Studies Creative Leadership degree can be a powerful differentiator for those individuals who are in leadership roles or seeking them.  The Creative Leadership program incorporates courses in leadership, communication, change management, negotiation, conflict resolution, global leadership, organizational leadership and other selected course topics.  Through this combination of study, students will have the opportunity to gain the knowledge of multiple theories while mastering leadership strategies and techniques.  Graduates ability to demonstrate they can adapt quickly to today’s ever-evolving workplace and meet desired organizational outcomes in virtual and face-to-face environments differentiates them from the pack.
Admission:
BPS students must declare a program of study by the time they have reached junior standing, in a meeting with a their Academic Advisor.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Explain the importance of professional relationships and networking
2. Analyze possible causes for conflict in professional situations and propose creative scenarios for resolution
3. Apply knowledge gained in program to systematically problem solve
4. Develop tasks and work processes for desired organizational outcomes
Requirements
Courses (required and elective): 120 credits - divided into 4 segments:
Liberal Studies Core 30-37 credits
Professional Competencies Core 30 credits
Concentration Program of Study 30 credits
Electives 23-30 credits
Liberal Studies Core - 30-37 credits
(Mandatory for both programs of study.)
The Liberal Studies Core gives a foundation in writing, language or quantitative skills, humanities, social science, natural science, and critical reflections. It draws upon lower-division courses in the College of Arts and Sciences.
Writing (Choose 6 credits)
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Foreign Language or Quantitative Skills (Choose 6-12 credits)
Foreign Language:
Complete Language Skills Sequence Requirement outlined in the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Quantitative Skills:
Complete Quantitative Skills Sequence Requirement outlined in the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Humanities (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Humanities Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Social Science (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Social Sciences Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Natural Science (Choose 3-4 credits)
Any course listed in the Natural Sciences Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Critical Reflections on Ethical & Social Issues (Choose 3 Credits)
Any course listed in the Critical Reflections on Ethical & Social Issues Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Students are required to select one Liberal Arts Core Course that meets the IDEA requirement
Professional Competencies Core - (30 credits)
The Professional Competencies Core covers fundamental knowledge and abilities required in the modern workplace, such as ethics and critical thinking, problem solving, human relations, diversity and change management, budgeting and resource management, and teamwork. The Professional Competencies Core includes an introductory course, and a capstone experience required of all B.P.S. students. Designed to draw together issues from across the entire B.P.S. program, these courses summarize concepts covered in the curriculum and develop students’ skills in strategic decision-making that looks to the future.
Required Courses : (9 credits)
BPS 211 - Introduction to Professional Studies
BPS 411 - Senior Seminar
BPS 144 - Orange Immersion
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
Choose 7 Courses (21 Credits) from list below:
BPS 303 - Introduction to Change Management
BPS 315 - Practical Financial Management for the Working Professional
BPS 317 - Assertiveness in the Workplace for Professional Studies
BPS 321 - Rhetorical Awareness and the Diverse Workplace
BPS 335 - Conflict in Business and Management for Professional Studies
BPS 382 - Leading Cooperative Negotiations
LGL 403 - Business Organizations
BPS 415 - Digital and Business Communications for Professional Studies
CRS 331 - Interpersonal Communication
KNM 301 - Introduction to Knowledge Management
PPM 325 - Project Communications and Stakeholder Management
Major Requirements: Creative Leadership (30 credits)
Required Courses (30 Credits)
CRL 301 - Introduction to Creative Leadership
CRL 311 - Professional Issues in Creative Leadership
CRL 313 - Strategic Leadership in Professional Studies
CRL 320 - Coaching for Leaders
CRL 406 - Leading from Within
CRL 319 - Global Leadership
BPS 325 - Creative and Design Thinking for Professional Studies
CRL 342 - Customer Relations Leadership
CRL 472 - Organizational Leadership
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
Note:
The degree is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

