Cybersecurity Administration, BPS
Contact
Associate Dean: 
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Program Director: 
Steve Wallace, Professor of Practice
 College of Professional Studies, swalla02@syr.edu
Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Description
The Bachelor of Professional Studies major in Cybersecurity Administration encompasses the protection of information systems and the leadership skills needed in this fast growing field. Cybersecurity is the science and practice of protecting information by preventing, detecting, and responding to attacks and an essential part of any corporate or government plan.  With the rising need for more advancement in protecting our national and personal security from online intrusions there is a call from government and corporate areas to have specialists, administrators and leaders trained in this field. This degree will provide students with the skills needed to manage people and technologies required to protect information, information systems, and infrastructures.
The program will be an online bachelor’s degree that is geared towards continuing education students who will work on the degree part time.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Describe and analyze components of a network, its hardware and software
2. Evaluate organizational system vulnerabilities and matters of information security to stakeholders by employing technological, analytical, communication, ingenuity and critical thinking skills.
3. Create successful solutions for technical and security concerns while balancing business organization concerns.
4. Apply codes of conduct and ethics in relationship to security systems and cybersecurity plans
5. Identify, analyze and apply policies and procedures to system weaknesses
6. Formulate cybersecurity strategies and policies both short- and long-term.
Liberal Studies Core - 30-37 credits
The Liberal Studies Core gives a foundation in writing, language or quantitative skills, humanities, social science, natural science, and critical reflections. It draws upon lower-division courses in the College of Arts and Sciences.
Writing (Choose 6 credits)
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Quantitative Skills (choose 6 credits)
Choose Quantitative Skills Sequence Requirement outlined in the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Humanities (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Humanities Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Social Science (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Social Science Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Natural Science (Choose 3-4 credits)
Any course listed in the Natural Science Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Critical Reflections on Ethical and Social Issues (Choose 3 credits)
Any course listed in the Critical Reflections on Ethical and Social Issues Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Students are required to select one Liberal Arts Core Course that meets the IDEA requirement
Professional Competencies Core - 30 credits
The Professional Competencies Core covers fundamental knowledge and abilities required in the modern workplace, such as ethics and critical thinking, problem solving, human relations, diversity and change management, budgeting and resource management, and teamwork. The Professional Competencies Core includes an introductory course, and a capstone experience required of all B.P.S. students. Designed to draw together issues from across the entire B.P.S. program, these courses summarize concepts covered in the curriculum and develop students’ skills in strategic decision-making that looks to the future.

Required Courses (9 Credits)
BPS 211 - Introduction to Professional Studies
BPS 411 - Senior Seminar
BPS 144 - Orange Immersion
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
and 
Choose 7 Courses (21 Credits) from list below:
 BPS 315 - Practical Financial Management for the Working Professional
BPS 317 - Assertiveness in the Workplace for Professional Studies
CRL 319 - Global Leadership
BPS 321 - Rhetorical Awareness and the Diverse Workplace
BPS 335 - Conflict in Business and Management for Professional Studies
CRL 342 - Customer Relations Leadership
BPS 382 - Leading Cooperative Negotiations
LGL 403 - Business Organizations
BPS 415 - Digital and Business Communications for Professional Studies
KNM 310 - Knowledge Capture and Codification
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
PPM 325 - Project Communications and Stakeholder Management
Cybersecurity Administration Major Courses
33 credits all required: 
CYB 233 - Introduction to Computer Networking for Professional Studies
CYB 323 - Introduction to Information Security for Professional Studies
CYB 334 - Security in the Networked Environment for Professional Studies
CYB 336 - Leading Issues in Information Security for Professional Studies
CYB 342 - Information Security Policy for Professional Studies
CYB 346 - Information Technology Management and Administration for Professional Studies
CYB 402 - Digital Forensics for Professional Studies
CYB 425 - Enterprise Risk Management for Professional Studies
CYB 476 - Applied Information Security for Professional Studies
KNM 301 - Introduction to Knowledge Management
KNM 311 - Safeguarding Knowledge Management and Codification Data
Electives - 27 credits (or as many needed to reach 120 credits)
Note:
The degree is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

