Disability Studies Minor
Contact:
Michael Gill
350 Huntington Hall
315-443-9074
mcgill@syr.edu
Program website: http://disabilitystudies.syr.edu
The minor in Disability Studies focuses on disability as a social and cultural phenomenon, identity, social construct, and metaphor. Disability Studies applies social, cultural, historical, legal, philosophical, and humanities perspectives to understanding disability in society. Topics covered in Disability Studies include disability law and policy; the sociology, anthropology, geography, and history of disability; the intersection between disability and race, gender, sexuality, and class; the representation of disability in literature, the media, and popular culture; advocacy and self-advocacy; and assistive technology and accommodations for people with disabilities. The Disability Studies minor does not focus on instructional or clinical approaches to disability, but can complement the studies of students in these programs.
The minor requires 18 credits, with 12 credits in Disability Studies (DSP prefix) courses and 6 credits of approved electives. At least 12 credits must be taken in 300 level or above courses, and a minimum of 15 credits must be taken through Syracuse University. Courses must be approved by the student’s advisor in Disability Studies. Courses in the minor may be able to be used to fulfill requirements in students’ home schools and colleges, at their discretion.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Describe, summarize the social, cultural, and political situation of people with disabilities
2. Describe foundational social, cultural, historical, and philosophical perspectives in the study of disability in society
3. Analyze and critique cultural representations and stereotypes of people with disabilities
4. Explain the development of disability rights movements
Requirements for Admission
A 2.8 grade point average is required for admission to the minor in Disability Studies.  In addition, a one-to-two page personal statement describing the student’s interest in the minor is also required.  Although the minor is offered through the School of Education, it is open to any undergraduate students at Syracuse University.
Program Requirements
Disability Studies (DSP) Courses (12 credits required)
Any DSP courses including courses taken under numbers cross-listed with DSP, and selected topic DSP courses not yet listed in the catalog.
With the approval of the minor advisor, students may use credits from other Syracuse University courses with a disability studies focus but without a DSP prefix to fulfill the DSP 12-credit requirement.
  Electives (6 credits required)
Students may take up to 6 credits electives, subject to the approval of an advisor. Possible courses include additional DSP courses or the following, among others:
ANT 455 - Culture and AIDS (cross-listed with WGS 455 )
 CFE 362 - Youth, Schooling and Popular Culture (crosslisted with SOC 361 and WGS 362)
CFE 444 - Schooling & Diversity (cross-listed with WGS 444) OR SWK 328 - Human Diversity in Social Contexts (cross-listed with WGS 328)
 EDU 310 - The American School
 GEO 372 - Political Geography
 PSC 328 - American Social Movements
 SOC 355 - Sociology-of Health and Illness
SOC 364 - Aging and Society
SOC 433 - Race, Class, and Gender
 SWK 315 - Social Welfare Policy and Services II
SWK 326 - Persons in Social Context
 WRT 428 - Studies in Composition, Rhetoric and Literacy
WRT 440 - Studies in the Politics of Language and Writing

