Drama, BS
Contact
James Clark, Program Coordinator
820 East Genesee Street
315-443-2669
jaclark@syr.edu
Faculty
Jill Anderson, James Clark, Robert Hupp, Sammy Lopez, Michael McCurdy
Theater Management Track
In the bachelor of science (B.S.) degree program you’ll enjoy a balance of drama department classes, liberal arts, and other academic courses. The theater management track is the only one of our B.S. tracks to which you can apply as a new student. It will prepare you for a variety of careers, including producing, marketing and public relations, casting, development, and general management. It will also provide you with the chance to develop widely transferable management skills. Working in direct partnership with professionals at Syracuse Stage, you will gain firsthand knowledge of a professional theater company’s operations. Students on the Theater Management track are eligible to participate in the London program (SU Abroad) in the fall semester of their junior year and in the Tepper Semester in New York City in the fall or spring of their senior year. During this semester, the students will have an internship in some aspect of the entertainment industry.
Other B.S. in Drama Tracks
After gaining admission to, and completing a portion of, one of the bachelor of fine arts (B.F.A.) degree programs (acting, musical theater, stage management, or theater design and technology), you may decide that you want to pursue other academic interests. Several other tracks in the B.S. program-including playwriting and directing, which are more broadly focused than the B.F.A. programs-enable you to tailor the curriculum to your individual interests and to pursue a minor
  Student Learning Outcomes
Develop effective communication skills by demonstrating listening skills and becoming proficient at articulating ideas and concepts
Demonstrate professional competence in guiding and completing the overall management of a particular artistic project
Demonstrate an overall knowledge of the various aspects of producing theatre including financial planning, marketing and publicity, and audience services
Demonstrate effective skills for the professional workplace including following directions, punctuality, pro-active leadership, strong organizational and office skills, positive self-presentation, and a positive attitude
Demonstrate an ability to work with creative artists (actors, directors, writers, musical directors, musicians, choreographers, designers, etc.) in the creative process
Demonstrate the ability to participate in collaborative artistic endeavors to a professional standard
Program Requirements
The B.S. degree requires 120 credits, including a minimum of 50 credits in the liberal arts, and a cumulative grade point average of 2.0 (C). In addition to the liberal arts distribution of requirements, students must select an 18-credit minor or academic specialization in an academic (non-studio) area of study. They may take additional credits if they wish to satisfy their own interests.
Drama Requirements: 22 credits
DRA 115 - Drama in Context I
DRA 116 - Drama in Context II
DRD 115 - Introduction to Theater Production I
DRD 116 - Introduction to Theater Production II
DRA 355 - Drama in Context III
DRA 356 - Drama in Context IV
Drama Literature (x2) 3 credits each
Drama Emphasis Theater Management: 36 Credits
DRA 105 - Introduction to Acting/Non-Majors
DRD 301 - Fundamentals of Theater Design
DRM 194 - Introduction to Theater Management
DRM 251 - Introduction to Stage Management
DRM 381 - Theater Management Practicum (x2) 3 credits each
DRM 394 - Theater Management I
DRM 395 - Theater Management II
Theater Mgmt. Elective (x2)  3 credits each
Drama Internship:  total of 6 credits
NOTE:
The above Drama Emphasis courses are those required for the Theater Management track. For information about other tracks and their requirements, please consult the program coordinator.
Theatre Laboratory: 0 credits
DRA 090 - Theater Lab 
Seven Required Semesters of Theater Lab:  total of zero credits
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Minor/Academic Specialization: 18 credits
It is recommended that the student finds an official minor from a school or college within the University that complements his or her course of study or, in consultation with his or her advisor, selects an academic specialization that is of interest and will enhance the student’s education.
Minor/Academic Specialization: 18 credits
Drama Electives: 12 credits
Drama electives (also known as drama support) are courses that are not required specifically for the student’s program of study, but which are meant to enhance their understanding of their major field or their overall undergraduate experience.
Academic Electives 25 credits
Humanities  (6 credits)
Social Sciences  (6 credits)
Natural Sciences/ Math  (6 credits)
Free Academic Electives  (7 credits)
Note:
It is recommended that the student finds an official minor from a school or college within the University that complements his or her course of study or, in consultation with his or her advisor, selects an academic specialization that is of interest and will enhance the student’s education.
Total Credits Required: 120
Degree Awarded: BS in Drama

