English and Textual Studies Minor
Contact:
Margaret Butler, Administrative Assistant 
mmbutl01@syr.edu
Faculty
Mona Awad, Crystal Bartolovich, Dorri Beam, Chanelle Benz, Chris Brunt, Dympna Callaghan, Jonathan Dee, Susan Edmunds, Carol Fadda, Chris Forster, Ken Frieden, Mike Goode, Matt Grzecki, Roger Hallas, Chris Hanson, Sarah Harwell, Brooks Haxton, Mary Karr, Christopher Kennedy, Katherine Kidd, Coran Klaver, Delali Kumavie, Ethan Madarieta, Patricia Moody, Patricia Roylance, George Saunders, Will Scheibel, Stephanie Shirilan, Bruce Smith, Dana Spiotta, Scott Manning Stevens, Harvey Teres, Tony Tiongson, Silvio Torres-Saillant
The Department of English offers programs in textual and cultural studies and in creative writing. Courses deal with both written and film/screen texts, and study such problems as the nature and implications of reading and interpretation, the production of meaning in language and culture, and the nature of literary forms. Creative Writing courses include classes on general forms (fiction, poetry, creative non-fiction) and workshops where students develop their own writing.
Minor in English and Textual Studies
The English and Textual Studies minor requires 18 credit hours of coursework (generally, six courses). Six credit hours (two courses) must be in courses at the 100 or 200 level (lower division) and twelve credits (four courses) must be in courses numbered 300 or above (upper division). One of the lower division courses must be ENG 242 - Reading and Interpretation. Students may include among their upper division courses either one approved course offered by the Writing Program (WRT) numbered 300 or above, or one approved Literature in Translation course (LIT) numbered 300 or above.
Please note that ENG 105 and ENG 107 and Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate credits do NOT count toward the lower division credit requirements for an English and Textual Studies minor. In addition, no grade lower than a C- for any class will count towards the ETS minor.
Declaring a minor
To declare an ETS minor, students should complete the Declaration of Minor form (http://syr.edu/registrar/forms/Declaration_of_Minor.pdf) and then bring the form to the English Undergraduate Office (401 Hall of Languages) for the signature of the Chair. A copy of the form must be filed with the student’s home college.

