Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises, BS
Contact:
Office of Undergraduate Programs, 215 Whitman School of Management, 315-443-2361.
Faculty
Cristiano Bellavitis, Suho Han, J. Michael Haynie, Alexandra Kostakis, David Lucas, Alexander McKelvie, Maria Minniti, Todd Moss, Arielle Newman, U. David Park, John Petosa, Minet Schindehutte, John Torrens, Ken Walsleben, Johan Wiklund
The major theme of the Martin J. Whitman School of Management is entrepreneurial management. Entrepreneurial management is defined as the ability to envision and create new business ventures whether in a startup situation or within a mature organization; the ability to identify new opportunities; and the ability to grow and renew existing businesses (including nonprofit organizations) in a healthy, productive manner. Entrepreneurs and entrepreneurial managers must deal with numerous challenges and opportunities including managing proficiently in rapidly growing global markets. These exciting challenges require new ways of thinking, creating, and managing. They also require personal courage and risk-taking.
The Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises Program (EEE) is designed to link educational excellence and entrepreneurial ingenuity. Topics covered in the curriculum include the entrepreneurial mind, opportunity identification and verification, financing, venture planning, managing family and closely held enterprises, venture capital, startup challenges, legal issues facing entrepreneurs, creating an entrepreneurial culture, and building highly proficient entrepreneurial teams. Students frequently benefit from the expertise of local and national leaders in the field.
Graduates of the EEE program are particularly well-suited for the growing opportunities found in both small and large organizations requiring entrepreneurial skills. A primary educational mission of the EEE program is to help students recognize and capitalize on their own entrepreneurial potential.
Student Learning Outcomes
In addition to the comprehensive learning outcomes listed in the Whitman School’s Undergraduate Education description, students in this major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcomes:
1. Evaluate an entrepreneurial business opportunity
2. Describe key entrepreneurial challenges, such as finance, marketing and growth
Major Requirements
Students majoring in entrepreneurship and emerging enterprises must take the following courses (credits in parentheses):
Sophomore or Junior Year
EEE 370 - Introduction to Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises (3)
Junior and Senior Year
Major electives (12)
Business elective (3)
Major electives are chosen from the following:
EEE 375 - Entrepreneurial Family Business Management
EEE 378 - Imagination, Entrepreneurship and Creative Problem Solving
EEE 482 - Entrepreneurial Marketing
EEE 400 - Selected Topics
EEE 420 - Corporate Entrepreneurship
EEE 424 - Entrepreneurial Deal Making
EEE 422 - Entrepreneurial Turnarounds
EEE 440 - Social Entrepreneurship in Action
EEE 442 - Emerging Enterprise Law
EEE 443 - Emerging Enterprise Consulting
EEE 444 - Dilemmas and Debates in Entrepreneurship
EEE 446 - Minority and Woman’s Entrepreneurship: Race, Gender, and Entrepreneurial Opportunity
EEE 450 - Sustainable Enterprise
EEE 451 - Finance for Emerging Enterprises
EEE 453 - LaunchPad
EEE 476 - Advanced Topics in Family Business Management
MAR 444 - New Product Management
Additional Information
Note: Students are eligible to apply for D’Aniello Entrepreneurial Internships (EEE 490), which may be taken for up to 3 credits.
Note: A major in Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises requires 15 credits of EEE courses and 3 credits of a business elective. The senior capstone course, EEE 457, does not count as part of the EEE major.

