Environmental and Interior Design, BFA
Contact
Zoriana Dunham, Program Coordinator
The Nancy Cantor Warehouse, zdunham@syr.edu
Faculty
Zoriana Dunham, Dennis Earle, SeWoong Kim, Seyeon Lee, Jody Nyboer, Matthew Leonard
Description
Through the exploration of the art and architecture of environmental design, students solve problems in a broad range of built environments. Students work closely with faculty in a studio environment similar to the professional design office experience. The curriculum and projects support the professional, multidisciplinary philosophy and foster the creation of humane, sustainable environments for people. Visualization and communications skills, as well as a strong technical component, provide a basis for the education of designers who will become creative problem solvers and leaders in various fields of interior design.
Students receive a broad liberal arts education in conjunction with studio courses in fine arts to complement their work in environmental and interior design. A sensitivity to the concerns of people, sustainable design practices and an understanding of the business of design contribute to their overall competence. Individual work experiences and actual and collaborative projects in the community and with industry expose students to current and future issues.
The program shares courses, design laboratories, and studios with other disciplines in the School of Design maintains a close relationship with professional designers, design societies, and manufacturers. Students and the program have received many national and international design awards. The program is accredited by the Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA).
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Demonstrate critical thinking, application of precedents/theories, diverse methodologies, and research synthesis in the design process
2. Demonstrate knowledge and effective application of programming, space-planning, and spatial design skills for environmental and interior design, including synthesis of research and client/user information, spatial analysis, and iterative problem-solving
3. Demonstrate competency in drawing, architectural graphics, and visual representation articulated through the use of analog and digital tools
4. Demonstrate an understanding of diverse behavioral, social, cultural, historical, political, and spatial contexts affecting the design of the built environment
5. Demonstrate the ability to reflect on and critique key aspects of design as process and product
6. Demonstrate an understanding of design as a unique tool to promote humanistic, progressive ideals which embrace diversity, environmental responsibility, universal/inclusive spaces, human-centered design, and alignment with progressive professional practices in environmental and interior design
Program Requirements
Major Requirements: 54 credits
DES 101 - Digital Tools for Designers I
DES 102 - Digital Tools for Designers II
DES 103 - Analog Design Tools
EDI 104 - Fundamentals of Environmental + Interior Design
EDI 144 - Drafting for Designers
EDI 251 - Environmental Design I
EDI 252 - Environmental Design II
EDI 253 - Design Presentation and Techniques I
EDI 254 - Design Presentation and Techniques II
EDI 255 - Environmental Factors I
EDI 256 - Environmental Factors II
EDI 351 - Environmental Design III
DES 304 - Collaborative Design
EDI 353 - Environmental Factors III
EDI 354 - Professional Practice for Designers
DES 451 - Community Projects Studio
EDI 452 - Environmental Design Capstone Project
Art History Requirements: 15 credits
DES 113 - History of Modern Design: 1850-Present
DES 114 - Design, Cultural Traditions and the Environment
DES 248 - Design Issues
Art/Design History Elective    3 credits
Art/Design History Elective    3 credits
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Liberal Arts and Sciences Electives (12 credits)/Academic Electives (11 credits)*
Academic electives are most courses offered outside of art, design, or transmedia (for example, courses offered in CRS, Arts and Sciences, Whitman, and other colleges outside of VPA). These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, and entrepreneurship, and languages at the 100-level, among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here.
*The required 23 credits should consist of 12 credits of Liberal Arts & Sciences Electives, and 11 credits of Academic Electives.
Studio Electives: 21 credits
Studio electives are courses usually offered in VPA through art, design, or transmedia.  The content of the courses directly relates to the preparation of students for professional careers in art, design, and transmedia. The course content includes, but is not limited to, conceptualization, process, product, and critique of creative work in studio practice. These courses meet for a much longer time, for a minimum of four hours per week for the duration of the semester. Usual meeting patterns are: the class meets once per week for four+ hours, or the class meets twice per week, usually for two or more hours each. You can find a comprehensive list of courses that count as studio electives here.
Study Abroad
Students are encouraged to spend a semester abroad in their junior year at the SU Center in London, UK or in Florence, Italy. or working on special projects and internships in Syracuse and around the world. Please refer to the SUAbroad website for eligibility and application criteria.
Total Credits Required: 120
Degree Awarded: BFA in Environmental and Interior Design

