Environmental Geoscience, B.S.
Gregory D. Hoke, Chair
earthenvsciences@syr.edu
204 Heroy Geology Laboratory
315-443-2672
Faculty
Suzanne Baldwin, Tripti Bhattacharya,  Melissa Chipman, Daniel Curewitz, Paul Fitzgerald, Gregory Hoke, Linda Ivany, Christopher Junium, Zunli Lu, Aaron Mohammed, Robert Moucha, Cathryn Newton, Joshua Russell, Scott Samson, Christopher Scholz, Jay Thomas, John Tillotson, Sam Tuttle, Tao Wen
Climate change, environmental degradation, and resource management collectively encompass perhaps the greatest global challenge we face today. Study of the processes that link changes in the atmosphere, ocean, solid earth and biosphere has seen major advances in recent decades. The BS in Environmental Geoscience degree delivers in-depth study of these components of the dynamic earth system and the linkages among them. This fundamental understanding is augmented with practical applications in environments spanning local to global scales. This degree 1) prepares students for careers in environmental resource monitoring, remediation, and regulation associated with positions in private corporations, government agencies, and non-profit organizations, 2) provides the scientific underpinning for students moving into complementary fields of environmental management, law, policy, and education, and 3) offers a solid foundation for students interested in pursuing advanced degrees in the sciences and/or careers in research related to the study of the Earth system in public, corporate, or academic settings.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
Explain process-based linkages among the lithosphere, climate, water, and life as illustrated by the Earth system over time.                                                                                
Analyze and interpret general patterns in the history of the Earth-life system using geological records.

Describe local and global patterns of climate change and understand both spatial and temporal drivers of the climate system.

Infer Earth surface processes and environments and characterize ecosystem properties from field, lab and data-driven observations of sedimentary systems.
Use analytical, remote sensing, and/or numerical tools to characterize hydrologic systems in the surface and/or subsurface.

Effectively synthesize published literature related to Earth and Environmental sciences in a written report and/or a data product.

Develop written and verbal communication skills required to effectively convey science to a wide range of audiences.
Requirements for B.S. Degree in Environmental Geoscience
The BS degree in Environmental Geoscience requires at least 64 credits of Earth and Environmental Science including auxiliary math and science coursework.
Introductory Earth Science Courses
4 credits
EAR 105 - Earth Science and
EAR 104 - Earth Sciences Laboratory
Note: EAR 104 must be taken concurrently with EAR 105
Or
EAR 203 - Earth System Science
Sequence Earth Science Course
4 credits
EAR 210 - History of Earth and Life
Ancillary Science Courses
16 credits
CHE 106 - General Chemistry Lecture I
and  CHE 107 - General Chemistry Laboratory I
CHE 116 - General Chemistry Lecture II
and  CHE 117 - General Chemistry Laboratory II
PHY 211 - General Physics I
and  PHY 221 - General Physics Laboratory I
BIO 121 - General Biology I
Math Sequence
6- 8 credits
Any combination of Calculus I and Calculus II or Elementary Probability and Statistics I from the following list:
MAT 285 - Life Sciences Calculus I
MAT 286 - Life Sciences Calculus II
MAT 295 - Calculus I
MAT 296 - Calculus II
MAT 221 - Elementary Probability and Statistics I
Introduction to Earth and Environmental Science Skills Set
4 credits
Two EAR 200 courses in: 

Introduction to Field Methods (2 credits)
Introduction to Data Analysis (2 credits)
EAR 200 - Selected Topics
Core Courses in Environmental Geoscience
13 credits
EAR 317 - Sedimentary Processes and Systems
EAR 419 - Environmental Aqueous Geochemistry
and
EAR 417 - Geochemistry
or  BIO 345 - Ecology and Evolution
and
EAR 401 - Hydrogeology
or  EAR 413 - Physical Hydrology
Divisions of Environmental Geoscience
9 credits
Choose one from each block that does not duplicate the above core classes. Other courses may be substituted by petition.
Block 1: Environmental Data Analysis
EAR 311 - Environmental Geophysics
EAR 402 - Numerical Methods in Geosciences
EAR 410 - Applications of GIS in the Earth Sciences
Block 2: Surface Processes
EAR 401 - Hydrogeology
EAR 403 - Geomorphology
EAR 413 - Physical Hydrology
Block 3: Climate and Energy
EAR 305 - Earth Science of Energy
EAR 405 - Global Change:Geologic Record
EAR 415 - Introduction to Climate Dynamics
Upper Division Requirements
8 credits
Select 7-credits of upper-division EAR or approved auxiliary science or mathematics courses
AND
EAR 483 - Departmental Colloquium (taken in junior or senior year)
Requirements for Distinction in Environmental Geoscience
GPA within department of 3.6
Overall GPA, by end of senior year of 3.4
Other criteria required for the degree with distinction:
Students must complete a research-based senior thesis in conjunction with a faculty supervisor. The thesis must constitute independent, hypothesis-driven research involving investigative tools and techniques in the Earth Sciences. Students must submit the written thesis to the department and give a public seminar reporting their results. Students should register for EAR 409 - Senior Thesis in Earth Science in the semester in which they plan to submit the thesis. All else being satisfied, Distinction is conferred following a vote of approval from the Faculty of the Department of Earth and Environmental Science.

