Environmental Engineering, BS/Environmental Engineering, MS
Contacts
Svetoslava Todorova, Environmental Engineering Program Director
139 Link Hall
315-443-2557
stodorov@syr.edu
  Andria Costello Staniec, Civil & Environmental Engineering Department Chair
151 Link Hall
315-443-1057
costello@syr.edu
Faculty
Riyad S. Aboutaha, Shobha K. Bhatia, Elizabeth Carter, David G. Chandler, Ruth Chen, Andria Costello Staniec, Charles T. Driscoll Jr., Chris E. Johnson, Min Liu, Yizhi Liu, Eric M. Lui, Sinead Mac Namara, Aaron Mohammed, Dawit Negussey, Zhao Qin, Baris Salman, Yilei Shi, Svetoslava Todorova, John Trimmer, Teng Zeng
Program Description
The combined degree is for students to complete the Bachelor of Science in Environmental Engineering and the Masters of Science in Environmental Engineering degrees consecutively, with a goal of completing both degree requirements in five years. Students accepted into the 5-year BS/MS program will be able share up to 7 credits of 500+ level coursework toward the completion of both degrees. They will also have the opportunity to complete up to 6 credits of graduate-only coursework and transfer those credits toward their MS program of study. A block of transfer credits labeled as “transferred from SU undergraduate record” appears on the graduate record and applies credit hours toward the graduate degree, but is not calculated in the graduate GPA.
Admission
Students must be currently enrolled in the BS Environmental Engineering program at Syracuse University, and should apply to the combined BS and MS program in the first semester of their third year of study. Admission is based upon academic performance. Students are accepted for graduate study after completion of the third year of study but are not fully matriculated as graduate students until all bachelor’s degree requirements have been met.
BS Environmental Engineering Curriculum
Students must satisfy all the requirements of the Environmental Engineering, BS.
MS Environmental Engineering Curriculum
Students must also satisfy all the requirements of the Environmental Engineering, MS.

