Food Studies Minor
Coordinator:
Mary Kiernan
Minor Coordinator
522C White Hall
315-443-4563
mpkierna@syr.edu
Description:
The Food Studies minor is an interdisciplinary approach to examine the U.S. and global food systems from production through consumption using a multi-level and holistic approach. Students take courses covering production, consumption and policy aspects of food as well as food security. The Food Studies minor is a valuable complement to a variety of majors because of the growing interest in food systems in academia and in the general public. Issues around organic production, the local food movement, genetic modification of food and nanotechnology, and food access in the U.S. and elsewhere are all covered in the minor and have potential applications in the natural sciences, business, public policy, communications and media, and the social sciences.
Admission:
To be admitted to the program, students must submit a Declaration of Minor form to their academic advisor, the minor coordinator and their home college dean’s office.
Curriculum Requirements
The program leading to a minor in Food Studies requires the completion of six courses (18-19 credits), two of which are mandatory and four of which are electives. Students should work closely with their major advisor and the Food Studies minor coordinator to ensure they are meeting the necessary requirements for both programs.
Minors must take 6 credits of the following lower-division courses:
FST 102 - Food Fights: Contemporary Food Issues
AND
FST 202 - Agroecology
OR
FST 204 - Food, Identity, and Power
Minors must take FOUR of the following courses:
FST 302 - Food, Environment and Climate
FST 303 - Food Movements
FST 304 - Farm to Fork
FST 306 - Food Cooperatives
FST 307 - Feeding the World: Global Agri-Food Governance
FST 309 - Philosophy & Practice of Locavorism
FST 310 - Will Work for Food: Labor Across the Food Chain
FST 312 - Emergency Food Systems
FST 402 - Feeding the City: Urban Food Systems
FST 403 - The Human Right to Adequate Food and Nutrition
NSD 452 - Mediterranean Food and Culture: A Florence Experience
NSD 555 - Food, Culture and Environment
 FST 412 - Wine Appreciation
OR
FST 422 - Wine and Beer Appreciation
Note, students can only count either FST 412 or 422 towards the minor requirement.

