Forensic Science, BA
Integrated Learning Major In Forensic Science
Contact
Michael Sponsler, sponsler@syr.edu
Professor of Chemistry, Director of Curricular Programs
for the Forensic and National Security Sciences Institute
at Syracuse University
1-133 Center Sci & Tech
315-443-4880
Core Faculty
Kathleen Corrado, James Crill, Deepika Das, Ulrich Englich, James Hewett, Michael Marciano, Natalie Novotna, Maria Pettolina, Robert Silver, James T. Spencer, Michael B. Sponsler
Description
Professionals in technically demanding fields are commonly asked to apply their expertise to other seemingly unrelated disciplines. As a result, they must have a comprehensive understanding of not only their own field, but also secondary knowledge of another broadly based, often interdisciplinary, field of study. A chemist might lend his or her expertise to a matter of legal or ethical importance. A curator might evaluate scientific and historical evidence about a painting’s authenticity. A journalist might research a story involving science, medicine, and technology.
Forensic Science is a 25- to 26-credit Integrated Learning Major (ILM) that can complement a variety of other majors, including Anthropology, Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry, Earth Sciences, Linguistics, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology, and Sociology. Other majors will be considered based on student proposals that include appropriate connection courses and with the approval of the director.
This ILM is designed to provide a broad exposure to the field, increasing employability in a variety of settings related to Forensic Science. Like all ILMs, Forensic Science includes a capstone project where students make contacts with practitioners in their field, complete a research project, and present their findings.
This Integrative Learning Major is intended to provide a broad exposure to the field of forensic science, increasing employability in a variety of careers that relate to forensic science. However, this major will not generally be sufficient to prepare students for forensic laboratory positions unless it is paired with a chemistry, biochemistry, or biology major.  Additionally, students interested in a job in the forensic DNA field should be aware that certain undergraduate coursework is required for laboratory positions in the US including courses that cover the subjects of molecular biology, biochemistry, genetics, and statistics.
This ILM may be combined with any other undergraduate major with approval by the program director. While certain majors typically serve as the base major for this ILM, students are encouraged to meet with the program director to determine their best choice of a base major. Dually enrolled students must have a base major within Arts and Sciences|Maxwell.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
SCIENTIFIC KNOWLEDGE AND PRINCIPLES - (a) Explain the scientific foundational principles of forensic science and how they relate to area of major. (b) Demonstrate an understanding of the relationship between forensic science and the legal system. 
RESEARCH AND CRITICAL THINKING - Demonstrate the ability to use a rationale-based approach in problem solving and/or to evaluate and analyze forensic practices as related to the reliability, accuracy, and limitations of forensic science.
ETHICS and QUALITY - Become oriented in the ethical standards, integrity, professionalism, and quality assurance protocols and standards in the field of forensic science.
PRACTICAL IMPLEMENTATION - Contact an expert and use their feedback to design and conduct a research project.
COMMUNICATION AND COLLABORATION - Effectively communicate scientific principles, research question and project investigation with objectivity and transparency to stakeholders including scientists and non-scientists.
Required:
GPA of at least 2.0; and complete all the requirements of one of the following majors: Anthropology, Biology, Biochemistry, Chemistry, Earth Sciences, Linguistics, Mathematics, Physics, Psychology, and Sociology. Other majors will be considered based on student proposals that include appropriate connection courses and with the approval of the director.
Required Entry Courses:
CHE 113 - Forensic Science
FSC 406 - Advanced Forensic Science
MAT 221 - Elementary Probability and Statistics I (PSY 252 may be taken instead by PSY majors)
Connection Courses:
Must take one designated for the primary major
FSC 332 - Intro to Forensic Anthropology
ANT 433 - Human Osteology or
ANT 436 - Bioarchaeology (for ANT majors)
 FSC 444 - Forensic Chemical Analysis or
BIO 326 - Genetics (for BIO, BCM majors)
 FSC 444 - Forensic Chemical Analysis (for CHE, EAR, PHY majors)
LIN 375 - Forensic Linguistics (for LIN majors)
MAT 521 - Introduction to Probability (for MAT majors)
PSY 474 - Forensic Psychology or
FSC 452 - Forensic Mental Health (for PSY majors)
 SOC 334 - Criminal Justice or
SOC 397 - Criminology (for SOC majors)
Electives:
Three courses; any FSC course may be used even if not listed; courses used for other requirements cannot be also counted as electives
FSC 332 - Intro to Forensic Anthropology
FSC 434 - Anatomy & Physiology for Forensic Medicine
FSC 435 - Medicolegal Death Investigation I
FSC 440 - Special Topics in Advanced Forensics
FSC 441 - Forensic Analysis of Biological Evidence
FSC 444 - Forensic Chemical Analysis
FSC 451 - Forensic Pathology
FSC 452 - Forensic Mental Health
FSC 453 - Forensic Toxicology
FSC 455 - Computational Forensics
FSC 456 - Mobile Forensics and Social Networking
FSC 457/BIO 457 - Principles of Human Toxicology 
FSC 461 - Firearms and Impression Evidence
FSC 463 - Bloodstain Pattern Analysis
FSC 464 - Latent Print Processing
FSC 465 - Latent Prints
FSC 467 - Forensic Photography
FSC 468 - Crime Scene Investigation
FSC 469/BIO 469 - Science of Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction 
FSC 472/BIO 472 - Advanced Light Microscopy 
FSC 473 - Mechanics of Modern Firearms
FSC 474 - Forensic DNA Analysis
FSC 475 - Latent Prints II
FSC 476/BIO 476 - Cold Cases
FSC 478 - Crime Scene Investigation II
FSC 479 - Microbial Forensic Science
ANT 433 - Human Osteology
ANT 434 - Anthropology of Death
ANT 436 - Bioarchaeology
BIO 326 - Genetics
BIO 462 - Molecular Genetics
CHE 335 - Chemical and Biochemical Analysis with Laboratory
CHE 575 - Organic Spectroscopy
IST 402 - Digital Forensics
LIN 375 - Forensic Linguistics
MAT 521 - Introduction to Probability
NUC 520 - Radiochemistry, Nuclear Fuel Reprocessing and Nonproliferation
PSY 474 - Forensic Psychology
SOC 334 - Criminal Justice
SOC 397 - Criminology
Required Capstone
FSC 498 - Capstone Seminar in Forensic Science
Total Credits 25 or 26

