Graphic Design, BS (Not admitting students)
Contact:
Renée Stevens, Chair
Department of Visual Communications
318 Newhouse 3, 315-443-3367
Faculty
Rafael Concepcion, Seth Gitner, Ken Harper, Gregory Heisler, Paula Nelson, Milton Santiago, Hal Silverman, Michael Snyder, Renée Stevens, Bruce Strong, Claudia Strong, Jason Webb
The graphic design major emphasizes problem-solving, storytelling, design thinking, and a human-centered approach in interactive, motion, immersive, and print environments.  Students also learn industry-specific communications law and ethics, as well as develop relevant skills in writing, photography, presentation, and business.
Student Learning Outcomes in Graphic Design
In addition to the comprehensive Newhouse School learning outcomes listed in the school’s Educational Mission students in the Graphic Design major are expected to achieve the following learning outcome:
Produce professional quality design work by synthesizing the best practices and current theories of traditional graphic design, motion and emerging media.
Major Requirements
Students majoring in graphic design must complete 42 credits within the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications. The major requirements follow:
Required courses (36 credits)
COM 107 - Communications and Society
COM 117 - Multimedia Storytelling
COM 346 - Race, Gender, and the Media
Or
COM 348 - Beauty and Diversity in Fashion Media
Or
COM 350 - Topics in Media, Diversity and Inclusion
COM 505 - Communications Law for Journalists
Or
COM 506 - Communications Law for Television, Radio, Film
Or
COM 507 - Communications Law for Advertising and Public Relations
JNL 211 - Cross-Media News Writing
VIS 201 - Introduction to Photography for Multimedia
VIS 207 - Introduction to Graphic Design
VIS 317 - Typographic Design
VIS 327 - Type and Image Design
VIS 447 - Motion Design
VIS 457 - User Interface and User Experience (UI/UX) Design
VIS 467 - Immersive Design
Grammar Competency Requirement
Students must complete a grammar competency as part of their degree requirements. There will be two ways students can satisfy this competency:
First, by passing a grammar competency exam during their first semester on campus. The exam will be given twice - once before the end of the first week of classes and a second time prior to registration the next semester.  A passing grade on the exam will fulfill the competency requirement.
Secondly, by passing COM 101, a 0-credit grammar course which will be mandatory for students who fail the grammar competency exam.  This course can be repeated until a passing grade is earned and the competency is met.
 Students must meet the grammar competency to receive a degree.
 Capstone Requirement (3 credits)
VIS 487 - Graphic Design Capstone
Newhouse Electives ( 3 credits)
Graphic Design majors are required to take one Newhouse elective.
Global Experience
The Global Experience requirement may be fulfilled by studying abroad or taking an approved class. A list of courses that fulfill this requirement can be found in the Newhouse Guide Book. If a student chooses to take a Newhouse class to fulfill this requirement, the additional Newhouse hours will be added to the 122 credits needed for graduation if the student has reached the Newhouse credit maximum.
Additional Requirements
EEE 370  - Introduction to Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises (Whitman School of Management)
PHI 293  - Ethics and the Media Professions (College of Arts and Sciences)
Total: 42 Newhouse credits required

