Healthcare Administration, BPS
Contact:
Associate Dean:
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Practice 
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Administrative Director:
Charlotte Stahrr, Academic Program Administrator
College of Professional Studies, cstahrr@syr.edu
  Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Description:
The Bachelor of Professional Studies major in Healthcare Administration provides foundational knowledge of the healthcare field combined with business, finance, electronic records management, human resources, project management, negotiation, and conflict management skills. This diverse course blending, balanced with health and management cores, prepares graduates for career placement or advancement in the healthcare field.
Student Learning Outcomes
Apply leadership and management concepts and theory to effectively devise and facilitate sustainable organizational processes, operations, and strategies.
Critically analyze concepts and theory related to communicable disease, its impact globally and locally, and to effectively manage and prevent further transmission.
Demonstrate advanced knowledge and competence in applying financial management models to health care organizations.
Apply health care law, ethics, and the protection of electronic records to policy and procedure development.
Articulate strategies for developing wellness initiatives at the organizational, personal, and client level.
Liberal Studies Core - 30-32 credits
The Liberal Studies Core gives a foundation in writing, language or quantitative skills, humanities, social science, natural science, and critical reflections. It draws upon lower-division courses in the College of Arts and Sciences.
Writing (Choose 6 credits)
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Quantitative Skills (Choose 6-8 credits)
Choose Quantitative Skills Sequence Requirement outlined in the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Humanities (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Humanities Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Social Science (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Social Science Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Natural Science (Choose 3 credits)
Any course listed in the Natural Science Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Critical Reflections on Ethical and Social Issues (Choose 3 credits)
Any course listed in the Critical Reflections on Ethical and Social Issues Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Students are required to select one Liberal Arts Core Course that meets the IDEA requirement
Professional Competencies Core (30 credits)
The Professional Competencies Core covers fundamental knowledge and abilities required in the modern workplace, such as ethics and critical thinking, problem solving, human relations, diversity and change management, budgeting and resource management, and teamwork. The Professional Competencies Core includes an introductory course, and a capstone experience required of all B.P.S. students. Designed to draw together issues from across the entire B.P.S. program, these courses summarize concepts covered in the curriculum and develop students’ skills in strategic decision-making that looks to the future.
Required (9 credits)
BPS 144 - Orange Immersion
BPS 211 - Introduction to Professional Studies
BPS 411 - Senior Seminar
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
Choose 7 of the following (21 credits)
BPS 303 - Introduction to Change Management
BPS 315 - Practical Financial Management for the Working Professional
BPS 317 - Assertiveness in the Workplace for Professional Studies
BPS 321 - Rhetorical Awareness and the Diverse Workplace
BPS 325 - Creative and Design Thinking for Professional Studies
CRL 342 - Customer Relations Leadership
BPS 382 - Leading Cooperative Negotiations
LGL 403 - Business Organizations
CRL 311 - Professional Issues in Creative Leadership
CRL 313 - Strategic Leadership in Professional Studies
KNM 311 - Safeguarding Knowledge Management and Codification Data
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
PPM 325 - Project Communications and Stakeholder Management
Professional Concentration (39 credits)
BPS 335 - Conflict in Business and Management for Professional Studies
CRL 472 - Organizational Leadership
HCA 210 - The Business of Healthcare
HCA 310 - Electronic Healthcare Systems
HCA 320 - Crisis (Emergency) Management
HCA 355 - Financial Reimbursement in Healthcare
HCA 370 - Human Resource Management
HCA 450 - The Business of Global Health and Epidemiology
HCA 425 - Wellness Consciousness
PHP 312 - Introduction to Healthcare Management
PHP 313 - Issues and Challenges: U.S. Healthcare Delivery
PHP 413 - Introduction to Healthcare Quality Improvement
PHP 414 - Introduction to Ethics & Laws in Healthcare Administration
Electives
19-21 Credits (or as many needed to reach 120)
Note:
The degree is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.
Note:
The degree is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

