History Minor
Contact:
The History Department Office
145 Eggers Hall
315-443-2210 
history@syr.edu
Faculty
Alan Allport, Susan Branson, Brian Brege, Craige B. Champion, Andrew W. Cohen, Albrecht Diem, Michael R. Ebner, Carol Faulkner, Jeffrey Gonda, Paul M. Hagenloh, Samantha Kahn Herrick, Denisa Jashari, Amy Kallander, George Kallander, Osamah F. Khalil, Radha Kumar, Norman A. Kutcher, Chris Kyle, Elisabeth D. Lasch-Quinn, Gladys McCormick, Tessa Murphy, Mark G. Schmeller, Martin S. Shanguhyia, Junko Takeda, Robert Terrell, Margaret Susan Thompson
An understanding of the past is essential to shaping the present and future. History majors and minors are asked not to memorize facts, but to develop the reading, writing, and research skills necessary to understand the past and face the future. The undergraduate program leading to a B.A. in history provides rigorous training in research, analysis, and writing. Because students of history learn to evaluate evidence, write well, and think clearly, studying history is excellent training for almost any career.
Minor in History
Minor Requirements Effective Fall 2022
To complete a history minor, students must take 6 courses (18 credits) in history including:
at least one course (3 credits) in each of the three geographic areas (global, European, US)
at least one course (3 credits) in each chronological period (pre-modern, modern)
4/6 courses must be upper-level (300+)
At least 5 courses (15 credits) have to be taken at Syracuse University. Students with AP credits are still required to take 5 courses here at Syracuse University. 
History Department Seminars (HST 301 and HST 401) are not required for the minor. Either or both may be taken and counted towards the minor. HST 301 would count towards the total of the 4/6 courses that must be upper level. HST 401 would also count as the 4/6 required upper level courses. In addition, HST 401 may also count towards the geographic distribution as well as the chronological distribution, depending on the topic of that 401 as detailed in the course description. 

