Human Development and Family Science, BS
Contact
Matthew Mulvaney, Undergraduate Program Director
144C White Hall
315-443-5654
mmulvane@syr.edu
Description
The Department of Human Development and Family Science (HDFS) is a dynamic interdisciplinary program that is informed by research and theory from the fields of anthropology, psychology, sociology, public policy, and education. We take a cross-cultural and life-span approach to the study of development across communities and contexts (e.g., families, schools, work, and hospitals). HDFS provides numerous opportunities for diverse career paths and advanced degree options. HDFS graduates are prepared to pursue careers as service providers, program administrators, human resource specialists in governmental and nongovernmental agencies serving children, youth, adults, and families. Additionally, graduates may work as advocates and researchers in educational institutions, health services, counselling, and family intervention programs. HDFS is a popular major for students interested in careers in law, medical or health related fields.
Students enrolled in the B.S. in Human Development and Family Science not only learn in the classroom, they receive first-hand experience in the community as well. Students complete a 180-hour community practicum that allows them to apply the knowledge gained in the classroom to real life settings. As a result, students have a comprehensive understanding of children, youth, adults, and families in theory and in practice.
The 124 credit B.S. degree program provides students with a broad foundation covering a range of issues focusing on the healthy development of children, youth, adults, and families across cultural contexts. In addition to liberal arts courses, students are expected to complete 40 credits of Program Requirements.
Intra-University Transfers
Students who meet the following criteria will be considered for Intra-University Transfer and/or Declaration of Major in Human Development and Family Science (HDFS) on a rolling basis.
Intra-University Transfer into HDFS - Students currently enrolled in programs outside the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics (Falk College) must meet the following requirements:
have a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or above;
have completed a minimum of 12credit hours of academic coursework at Syracuse University;
be making satisfactory academic progress; and
have expressed academic and career interests in the area of human development and family science.
Declaring a major in HDFS - Students currently enrolled in Falk College interested in declaring HDFS as a major or those currently enrolled in other programs who are interested in declaring HDFS as a second major must meet the following requirements:
have a cumulative GPA of 2.0 or above;
have completed a minimum of 12 credit hours of academic coursework at Syracuse University;
be making satisfactory academic progress; and
have expressed academic and career interests in the area of human development and family science.
Interested undergraduate students should contact the HDFS Department to schedule an appointment with the Director of Undergraduate Studies by emailing Kim Mura, kjmura@syr.edu. The HDFS Director of Undergraduate Program will decide whether or not to approve the student’s request.
Upon approval, students should complete the appropriate form (IUT): Application for Undergraduate Intra-University Transfer Form or Declaration of Major Form.
Students who are not accepted into the major may appeal the decision to the HDFS Undergraduate Committee. The decision of the HDFS Undergraduate Committee is final.
Student Learning Outcomes
Explain principles of life span development and family science across diverse contexts and populations. 
Utilize research to understand human development and family processes. 
Apply knowledge of individual and family development to implement developmentally supportive and culturally responsive practices. 
University Requirement (1 credit)
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
Note: the BS in Human Development and Family Science requires completion of an IDEA course (chosen from a select list posted in the course catalog) - The IDEA course may count as a liberal arts, departmental course, or elective requirement depending on the course chosen.  
Communication Skills
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
HFS 255 - Interpersonal Competence
Quantitative Skills
Statistics (6-8 credits)
Students pick any one course from the following First Course list:
MAT 121 - Probability and Statistics for the Liberal Arts I
MAT 194 - Precalculus
MAT 221 - Elementary Probability and Statistics I
MAT 285 - Life Sciences Calculus I
MAT 295 - Calculus I
AND
Students pick any one course from the following Second Course list:
GEO 386 - Quantitative Geographic Analysis
MAT 122 - Probability and Statistics for the Liberal Arts II
MAT 222 - Elementary Probability and Statistics II
MAT 285 - Life Sciences Calculus I 
MAT 286 - Life Sciences Calculus II
MAT 295 - Calculus I 
MAT 296 - Calculus II
MAX 201 - Quantitative Methods for the Social Sciences
PSY 252 - Statistical Methods II
Natural Science and Mathematics (12-15 credits)
NSD 225 - Nutrition in Health
Additional natural science and mathematics (9-12 credits)
Social Sciences (6 credits)
PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior or
PSY 209 - Foundations of Human Behavior/ Honors Section
Plus 3 credit hours in the Social Sciences
Humanities (12 credits)
Students must take at total of 12 credits of Humanities to include:
PHI 191 - The Meaning of Life
or
PHI 192 - Introduction to Moral Theory
Additional Liberal Arts Courses (6 credits)
Program Requirements (40 credits)
Required Courses 31 credits consisting of the following five categories:
Life Span Development (9 credits)
Family Science (9 credits)
Research (3 credits)
Cross-Cultural Perspectives (1 out of 2) (3 credits)
Internship (7 credits)
Life Span Development (9 credits)
HFS 202 - Development of Children
HFS 363 - Midlife Development and Gerontology
HFS 474 - Promises and Problems in Youth and Emerging Adulthood
Family Science (9 credits)
HFS 201 - Family Development
 and choose 2 courses from the list below:
HFS 325 - Children and Families in Health Care Settings
HFS 395 - Risk, Resilience, and Intervention
HFS 479 - Power, Conflict, Violence, and the Family
HFS 487 - Critical Incidents in Family Development
Research (3 credits)
HFS 204 - Applied Research Methods in Child and Family Studies
Cross-Cultural Perspectives (3 credits)
HFS 467 - Child and Family in Cross-Cultural Perspectives
OR 
HFS 482 - Development in Immigrant & Refugee Families
Internship (7 credits)
HFS 391 - Introduction to Internship Experience
HFS 492 - Child Internship OR
HFS 493 - Youth and Family Internship
AND
HFS 494 - HDFS Capstone Internship
Human Development and Family Science Electives (9 credits)
Take 9 credits from the following list:
HFS 270 - Experience Credit
HFS 290 - Independent Study
HFS 325 - Children and Families in Health Care Settings
HFS 326 - Developmental Perspectives in Medical Language
HFS 327 - Human Development and Sport
HFS 331 - Play, Childhood Development and Early Education
HFS 335 - Issues and Perspectives in Early Childhood Education
HFS 345 - The Developing Infant
HFS 355 - Children’s Learning and Thinking in Culture, Contexts and Application
HFS 365 - Language Development in Children
HFS 387 - Int Rel & Gender Roles
HFS 388 - Human Sexuality
HFS 422 - Work and Family in the 21st Century
HFS 423 - Death, Dying & Loss: Child and Family Perspectives
HFS 425 - Lust, Love and Relationships
HFS 447 - Principles and Practices in Parenting
HFS 452 - Mindfulness in Children and Youth
HFS 458 - Science of Caring and Sharing
HFS 457 - Separation & Divorce: Impact on Children and Families
HFS 470 - Experience Credit
HFS 486 - Family Life Education
HFS 477 - Urban Families and Community
HFS 490 - Independent Study
HFS 499 - Honors Capstone Project
A total of only 6 credits from the following courses can be counted as HDFS electives: 
HFS 270 or 
HFS 470 or 
HFS 290 or 
HFS 490  
A total of only 3 credits from the following courses can be counted as HDFS electives:  
HFS 388 or 
HFS 425  
HFS 325 can be used to fulfill either Family Science requirement or HDFS elective. The course can count only once.  
Students wishing to pursue a certification or credential in Child Life Specialist (CLS), Certified Family Life Educator (CFLE) or Child Development Associate (CDA) are advised to consult with their academic advisors during their sophomore year or earlier. Transfer students should consult with their academic advisors as soon as they are admitted to the HDFS department.
Our B.S. degree is endorsed by the Association of Child Life Professionals (ACLP). Graduates of our program can establish eligibility for certification as a Child Life Specialist through the ACLP. The ACLP requirements for certification include four components: (1) Earning your bachelor’s degree from an accredited academic institution; (2) Enrolling in and completing the 10 required Child Life Specialist Courses; (3) Completing a 600-hour clinical internship; and (4) Passing the professional certification exam. As an endorsed program, students who successfully complete the 10 required courses and graduate with our B.S. degree are eligible to pursue the 600-hour clinical internship. After the completion of the 600-hour clinical internship, eligibility is established for the professional certification exam.  
Students interested in becoming a Certified Child Life Specialist must follow eligibility requirements: Eligibility Requirements (childlife.org) established by the Association of Child Life Professionals.  For specific details regarding eligibility and certification requirements, please reference the Association of Child Life Professionals website: Association of Child Life Professionals website. 
Electives to Reach 124 Degree Applicable Credits
Students must complete a total of 124 degree applicable credits.  This includes a minimum of 62 credits of liberal arts and science courses.
Early Childhood Education Master’s Degree 4+1
Students earning a degree in human development and family science who wish to be dually certified as early childhood teachers (birth through grade 2 in both general and special education) have the opportunity to apply for a 15-month master’s degree in early childhood special education (ECSE) through the School of Education.at Syracuse University. Students who enroll in this degree program currently receive a substantial reduction in their graduate tuition. Potential applicants should look for current information about the program and its start dates, tuition reduction, and admissions requirements on the program’s website at the start of their last year of undergraduate study.
Students considering this 4+1 option should work with their academic advisor to complete these specific liberal arts requirements during their undergraduate program.
a writing course with a B- or better grade
two appropriate courses in college-level mathematics with course grades averaging to a B- or better with no grade below a C.
two sciences with laboratories (physical sciences recommended) with course grades averaging to a B- or better with no grade below a C;  
one humanities course that is not arts-related or history*
one social science course that is not psychology or history*
at least one class in history* (which may count toward fulfilling liberal arts core requirements in the social sciences or humanities, depending on the course); and
An art or music history course* (e.g. HOA or HOM) that would also meet a humanities requirement).
First college course in a language other than English* (LOTE) (e.g. 101 at Syracuse University) or successful completion of Level III of a LOTE in high school.
*With no grade less than a C
Interested undergraduate students should contact the ECSE program coordinator about taking other courses that might help reduce the number of graduate credits for the program.
Total Credits: 124
Degree Awarded: BS
SU Abroad
The College, in cooperation with the Syracuse University Abroad (Syracuse Abroad), strongly encourages students to take advantage of the opportunity to study abroad. Study abroad options include semester, summer, and short-stay programs. It is essential that students begin planning early for study abroad and work closely with their academic advisors.



For further information, contact the Office of Student Services in the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics, 330 Barclay Suite, 315-443-3144, or Syracuse University Abroad, 106 Walnut Place, 315-443-3471.

For the most up to date information visit the Syracuse Abroad website

