Illustration, BFA
Contact
Marty Blake, Program Coordinator

Shaffer Art Building, 315-443-3700
mablake@syr.edu 
Faculty
Martha Blake, Robert Dacey, Ginny Hsu, Frank Cammuso, Steven Ellis, Allison Sklaney, Tara Hogan, Phil McAndrew, Joseph Murphy, Taro Takizawa
Program Description
Using visual symbols and imagination, illustrators stimulate curiosity and interest, tell stories, illuminate, and motivate. Therefore, students in the illustration program must be able to draw and to communicate exceptionally well with visual images.
The curriculum, which leads to a B.F.A. degree, is centered on a series of studio courses covering figure drawing, drawing for reproduction, illustration concepts, and the history and development of illustration. At the same time, students embark on individual research projects in specialized areas of illustration. The program balances imagination and individual expression with the continuous development of skills in drawing, painting, digital media, and design as they apply to the communication arts. The program in illustration requires 122 credits.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Demonstrate fundamental skill in traditional and digital media
2. Establish a distinct and unique personal style
3. Display professional level competency in the timely conceptual planning and final execution of their illustrations
4. Create illustrations with specifically articulated professional goals: towards the entertainment industry, editorial publications, in sequential work and / or graphic work
5. Build a professional presence on a multitude of platforms: online, in a physical portfolio and through self-promotional campaigns
6. Apply historical and current perspectives in contextualizing practice
Program Requirements
Major Requirements: 59 credits
Requirements for the First Year:
AIC 101 - Arts in Context I 
AIC 102 - Arts in Context II 
ARI 101 - First-year Studio I 
ARI 102 - First-year Studio II 
Six 1-credit ARL workshops, selected from a list offered in the fall and spring of the student’s first year (3 workshops in the fall, 3 in the spring). In addition, the following two workshops are required, 1 in the fall and 1 in the spring:
ARL 131 - Observational Drawing Workshop
ARL 150 - Woodshop Art Lab I
ILL 251 - Introduction to Illustration I
ILL 252 - Introduction to Illustration II
ILL 253 - Media Arts Techniques I
ILL 254 - Media Arts Techniques II
ILL 351 - Intermediate Illustration I
ILL 352 - Intermediate Illustration II
ILL 353 - Illustration Research Problems
ILL 453 - The Business of Illustration
ILL 451 - Senior Portfolio I
ILL 452 - Senior Portfolio II
Illustration Concepts courses (Choose two of the following)
ILL 455 - IIlustration Concepts: Editorial Focus
ILL 456 - Illustration Concepts: Sequential Focus
ILL 457 - IIlustration Concepts: Visual Development Focus
ILL 458 - Illustration Concepts: Product Focus
 ILL 256 - Intro to Digital Illustration
Art History Requirements: 12 credits
Art/Design History Elective (x2) 3 credits each*
(*6 credits should be Liberal Arts & Sciences)
AIC 340 - Visiting Artist Lecture Series
(x3, 1 credit each)
Academic Requirements: 9 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Writing Intensive Elective 3 credits
Liberal Arts & Sciences (12 credits/Academic Electives (11 credits)*
Academic electives are most courses offered outside of art, design, or transmedia (for example, courses offered in CRS, Arts and Sciences, Whitman, and other colleges outside of VPA). These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, entrepreneurship, and languages among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here.
*The required 23 credits should consist of Liberal Arts & Sciences Electives (12 credits) and Academic Electives (11 credits).
Studio Electives: 18 credits
Studio electives are courses usually offered in VPA through art, design, or transmedia.  The content of the courses directly relates to the preparation of students for professional careers in art, design, and transmedia. The course content includes, but is not limited to, conceptualization, process, product, and critique of creative work in studio practice. These courses meet for a much longer time, for a minimum of four hours per week for the duration of the semester. Usual meeting patterns are: the class meets once per week for four+ hours, or the class meets twice per week, usually for two or more hours each. You can find a comprehensive list of courses that count as studio electives here.
Total Credits Required: 122
Degree Awarded: BFA in Illustration

