Industrial and Interaction Design, BID
Contact
Don Carr, Program Coordinator

116 Smith Hall, 315-443-0355, dwcarr@syr.edu
Faculty
Donald Carr, James Fathers, Meyer Giordano, Denise Heckman, Louise Manfredi, Carmel Nicoletti, Isabel Prochner, Ralf Schneider,  Yves Michel, Robert Tanchak
Description
Industrial designers develop a wide spectrum of design solutions that meet current demands and anticipate the future needs of society. Their designs must incorporate the effective use of materials and technology, allow for manufacturing constraints, and provide a clear advantage to existing solutions.
The five-year program in industrial and interaction design, which leads to the professional degree, bachelor of industrial design (B.I.D.), is noted for combining theory and practice, taking a process-oriented approach, and focusing on social and environmental responsibility. It is accredited by the National Association of Schools of Art and Design and exceeds the educational minimums recommended by the Industrial Designers Society of America (IDSA). The program consists of courses in design theory and practice, as well as support courses in the humanities, the physical and natural sciences, and the behavioral and social sciences. The responsive curriculum maintains a balance between technical, aesthetic, and humanistic aspects and keeps pace with the leading edge of design technology by anticipating developments in the field.
Students in the program participate in collaborative projects with business, industry, and government agencies, challenging students with real-life design problems. Industrial and interaction design students have an active chapter of the IDSA, which plans lecture programs, organizes field trips to consultant and corporate design offices, and participates in regional and national meetings of the society.
  NOTE: The School of Design will no longer accept applications into the five-year program in Industrial and Interaction Design after Fall 2023.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Demonstrate effective research skills and techniques to support and guide their design work
2. Articulate the theoretical context and historical influences for their work as designers
3. Demonstrate in their design work knowledge of a range of appropriate materials and manufacturing processes used in batch and mass manufacturing
4. Articulate the philosophical and ethical implications of design activity on society, culture, the environment, and professional practice
5. Apply a broad and deep knowledge of human factors in their design solutions specifically an understanding of semiotics, ergonomics, and the design of interfaces, systems and services
6. Communicate their design intent in a professional manner across a broad range of analogue and digital media as well as in verbal and written forms
Program Requirements
Major Requirements: 78 credits
DES 101 - Digital Tools for Designers I
DES 102 - Digital Tools for Designers II
DES 103 - Analog Design Tools
IND 104 - Fundamentals of Industrial & Interaction Design
IND 204 - Industrial Design: Technical Graphics
IND 271 - Sustainable Product Systems I
IND 272 - Principles of Industrial Design II
IND 274 - Principles of Industrial Form II
IND 276 - Industrial Design: Visualization and Representation
IND 373 - Production Processes: Metals
IND 374 - Production Processes: Plastics
IND 375 - Human Factors For Designers
IND 376 - Digital Surface Modeling
IND 377 - Industrial Design: Typography Studio
IND 379 - Industrial Design: Primary and Secondary Research
IND 471 - Digital and Physical Intersections
IND 472 - Industrial Design: Product Systems
IND 476 - Industrial Design: Environmental Practicum
IND 478 - Symbology and Semiotics in Industrial Design
IND 479 - Industrial Design Interface
IND 571 - Industrial Design: Product Practicum
IND 573 - Industrial Design: Thesis Research
IND 574 - Industrial Design: Thesis
IND 577 - Industrial Design: Philosophy and Ethics
IND 578 - Industrial Design: Professional Practices
Art History Requirements: 12 credits
DES 113 - History of Modern Design: 1850-Present
DES 114 - Design, Cultural Traditions and the Environment
Art/Design History Elective  (3 credits)
Art/Design History Elective  (3 credits)
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Liberal Arts Electives (15 credits)/Academic Electives (6 credits)*
Academic electives are most courses offered outside of art, design, or transmedia (for example, courses offered in CRS, Arts and Sciences, Whitman, and other colleges outside of VPA). These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, and entrepreneurship, and languages at the 100-level, among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here.
*The required 21 credits should consist of 15 credits of Liberal Arts & Sciences, and 6 credits of Academic Electives.
Studio Electives: 24 credits
Studio electives are courses usually offered in VPA through art, design, or transmedia.  The content of the courses directly relates to the preparation of students for professional careers in art, design, and transmedia. The course content includes, but is not limited to, conceptualization, process, product, and critique of creative work in studio practice. These courses meet for a much longer time, for a minimum of four hours per week for the duration of the semester. Usual meeting patterns are: the class meets once per week for four+ hours, or the class meets twice per week, usually for two or more hours each. You can find a comprehensive list of courses that count as studio electives here.
Free Electives 8 credits
Students can choose any course offered at SU, including but not limited to academic and/or studio courses.
Study Abroad
Pending a successful application and meeting program requirements, students may be eligible to spend a semester of their fourth year abroad at the SU Center in London, UK, or in Florence, Italy. Please refer to the SUAbroad website for eligibility and application criteria.
Total Credits Required: 150
Degree Awarded: BID in Industrial and Interaction Design

