Innovation, Society and Technology, BS
Contact:
Bruce Kingma, Professor of Entrepreneurship
Program Director
(315) 443-2911
iundergrad@syr.edu
  Website:
https://ischool.syr.edu/academics/innovation-society-and-technology-bachelors-degree/
Introduction:
The School of Information Studies offers a bachelor of science degree (B.S.) in Innovation, Society, and Technology.  This program is for students interested in research, innovation, and social justice in the impact of technology in society.
 The recent article, “A Crisis of Ethics in Technology Innovation”, MIT Sloan Management Review, March 2020 demonstrates the need for individuals with a background in ethics and social justice in the information technology industry. This degree program satisfies student demand at the Syracuse University School of Information Studies (iSchool) for a general program in information studies that provides research-focused students the opportunity to gain expertise in the modern impact and societal challenges of information technology.
Students in this program will receive coursework in information studies, information innovation, information technology, and information in society.  Graduates may continue their studies in a graduate program or provide expertise in the societal impacts of technology at an organization.
Student Learning Outcomes
In addition to the comprehensive iSchool Bachelor of Science learning outcomes students are expected to achieve in the course of earning their Bachelor’s degree, students in the Innovation, Society and Technology major at the iSchool are also expected to achieve the following learning outcomes:
Employ critical thinking skills in identifying, evaluating, and designing innovative practices in the age of digital transformation.
Examine and critique how individuals, organizations and society are created and impacted by data and information technology in the age of digital transformation.

iSchool Bachelor of Science Degree Requirements- Innovation, Society and Technology
The B.S. degree in Innovation, Society and Technology requires 120 credits, distributed as indicated below.
Innovation, Society and Technology Curriculum: 30-31 credits
Innovation, Society and Technology Primary Core: 12-13 credits
Students who transfer into the iSchool as an IUT or add an iSchool major after their first year of study, are not required to take IST101.

IST 101 - First-Year Forum
IST 195 - Information Technologies
IST 256 - Application Programming for Information Systems
IST 344 - Information Reporting and Presentation
IST 477 - Capstone in Innovation, Society & Technology (IST)
Information Innovation Core: 6 credits
Select two courses from the list below.

IDS 301 - What’s the Big Idea?: Technology Innovation
IST 341 - Human-Centered Design
IST 421 - Information Visualization
IST 429 - Technology and the Future of Work
IST 486 - Social Media in the Organization
Information Technology Core: 6 credits
Select two courses from the list below.
IST 233 - Introduction to Networks and Cloud Computing
IST 263 - Introduction to Front-End Web Development
IST 323 - Introduction to Information Security
IST 346 - Information Technology Management and Administration
IST 359 - Introduction to Database Management Systems
IST 387 - Introduction to Applied Data Science
Information in Society Core: 6 credits
Select two courses from the list below.
IST 305 - Globalization , Collaboration, Culture, Systems & Data
IST 343 - Data in Society
IST 382 - Cultural Competencies for Information Professionals
IST 419 - Economics of Digital Transformation
IST 426 - Information Justice & Community Engagement
IST 443 - Critique of the Information Age
IST 456 - Information Policies and Decision Making
Concentrations and Electives: 15 credits
Students must complete five additional iSchool courses to fulfill their IS&T elective requirement. Students are required to complete one iSchool concentration which typically consists of three courses.  The remaining two courses may be any IST 100-599 level courses or IDS courses
Completing a concentration allows students to select course work that matches their professional interests and planned career paths.  Students may petition the Undergraduate Program Director to approve three courses to be considered a concentration in an area of interest that is not shown in the official list of concentrations. These three courses must provide depth in an area of study.
Courses cannot be used to satisfy both a core requirement, a concentration, and an IST elective.
Students select from one of the following concentrations below.  Please note each concentration has one or more required course.
Data Analytics Concentration
Required
IST 359 - Introduction to Database Management Systems
IST 387 - Introduction to Applied Data Science
Concentration Electives: select one course from the list below
IST 407 - Data Mining
IST 414 - Data Driven Inquiry
IST 418 - Big Data Analytics
IST 421 - Information Visualization
IST 462 - Scripting for Data Analysis
Digital Retail Strategies Concentration
Students who pursue the 18-credit Digital Retail Strategies concentration will be required to take three RMT courses and one additional IST elective, as RMT classes do not count towards the 15 credit IST elective requirement.
Required
IST 195 - Information Technologies
RMT 301 - Retailing Fundamentals
RMT 407 - Retail Buying and Planning
RMT 457 - Electronic Retailing and Marketing
Concentration Electives: select two courses from the list below.
IST 263 - Introduction to Front-End Web Development
IST 322 - Digital Strategy & Analytics for the Web
IST 486 - Social Media in the Organization
IST 523 - Graphic Design for the Web
Information Security Management Concentration
Required
IST 323 - Introduction to Information Security
Concentration Electives: select two courses from the list below.
IST 336 - Leading Issues in Information Security
IST 342 - Information Security Policy
IST 402 - Digital Forensics
IST 425 - Enterprise Risk Management
IST 431 - Security in a Networked Environment
IST 476 - Applied Information Security
Innovation, Design, and Startups Concentration
All three IDS courses below are required.

IDS 301 - What’s the Big Idea?: Technology Innovation
IDS 302 - Idea2Startup
IDS 403 - iLaunchPad
Network and Cloud Computing Concentration
Required
IST 233 - Introduction to Networks and Cloud Computing
Concentration Electives: select two courses from the list below.
IST 346 - Information Technology Management and Administration
IST 408 - Blockchain Management
IST 431 - Security in a Networked Environment
IST 452 - Advanced Computer Networking
Project Management Concentration
Required
IST 345 - Managing Information Systems Projects
Concentration Electives: select two courses from the list below.
IST 352 - Information Analysis of Organizational Systems
IST 425 - Enterprise Risk Management
IST 442 - Agile Project Management Methodologies
IST 455 - Enterprise IT Consultation
IST 456 - Information Policies and Decision Making
Web Design and Management Concentration
Required
IST 263 - Introduction to Front-End Web Development
Concentration Electives: select two courses from the list below.
IST 322 - Digital Strategy & Analytics for the Web
IST 341 - Human-Centered Design
IST 349 - Human Computer Interaction
IST 363 - Advanced Front End Web Design
IST 486 - Social Media in the Organization
IST 523 - Graphic Design for the Web
University Wide Requirements
The iSchool participates in students’ knowledge and skill development through the Shared Competencies, Syracuse University’s institutional learning goals that highlight the knowledge and skills students can expect to gain through their major courses, liberal arts requirements and co-curricular activities.
All incoming and external transfer students are required to take FYS101, a 1-credit course.
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
IDEA
All incoming and transfer students are required to take a 3-credit IDEA course that can be selected from the approved IDEA Course Requirement list .
IST courses appearing on the approved IDEA course requirement list may be taken to fulfill both the IDEA requirement and/or a core or concentration requirement.
Skills Electives: 15-17 credits
Programming Skills
Students are required to complete the computer programming course listed below.  Petitions will not be accepted to substitute IST256.
IST 256 - Application Programming for Information Systems
Communication Skills: 9 credits
Students are required to take 12 credits in communications skills, including IST 344, as well as one course from each of the three categories below:
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing OR
WRT 109 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing (Honors) 
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing OR
WRT 209 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing (Honors) 

WRT 303 - Advanced Writing Studio: Research and Writing OR
WRT 307 - Advanced Writing Studio: Professional Writing 

Quantitative Skills: 6-8 credits
Students are required to attain minimum competence in mathematics by completing the quantitative skills requirement of the Liberal Art Core curriculum of the College of Arts and Sciences.
All IS&T majors are required to attain minimum competence in mathematics. Students may satisfy this requirement by completing the quantitative skills requirement of the Liberal Arts Core curriculum of the College of Arts and Sciences.
Arts & Sciences Divisional Requirements: 12 courses, minimum 36 credits
Students are required to take three courses in each of the three divisions of the Arts and Sciences-Natural Sciences and Mathematics, Social Sciences, and Humanities. In addition, three courses in any of the divisions must be completed to fulfill this requirement.
Students are required to complete a minimum of 60 credits of coursework in the College of Arts & Sciences. Courses from Communication Skills, Quantitative Skills and A&S Divisional Requirements will all count towards the A&S minimum credit requirement. Additional A&S courses will be required to reach the 60 credit minimum requirement.
General Electives: 21-24 credits
Students need 120 credits to graduate from Syracuse University.  If after meeting all program and University requirements, the student is still lacking to meet the 120 credits needed for graduation, students can take any undergraduate Syracuse University course to reach the graduation credits total.  Students can concentrate on a minor, a dual degree, a combined degree, an internship experience, or study abroad to reach the minimum of 120 credits required for graduation. 
International Experience
Students will be required to complete one international experience to graduate with their iSchool undergraduate degree.  iSchool Immersion courses that require domestic travel do not fulfull this requirement.  Students can fulfill their international requirement in one of the following ways
Semester abroad
University exchange
Short term abroad program
International Internship
Coursework (6 credits from approved list)
Approved international component - by petition

