Italian Language, Literature and Culture, BA
Contact:
Professor Lauren Surovi
334 H.B. Crouse Hall
lesurovi@syr.edu
Faculty
Stefano Giannini, Anne Leone, Lauren Surovi
The major in Italian language, literature, and culture, which leads to a B.A. degree, provides students with a mastery of the language and a broad knowledge of Italian literature and culture. Lower-division courses teach the skills needed to read, write, and speak Italian. After the second year, students are trained to develop an oral and written command of the language. Literature and film studies cover areas of studies from Dante and the Renaissance to modern and contemporary periods.
All students with more than one year of high school Italian are required to take a placement examination (accessible on line via the “my slice” page), given immediately before registration each semester. The requirement applies to all students regardless of class standing or previous study.
Prospective majors should consult the Italian program coordinator as early as possible. Early consultation is particularly important for students with little or no preparation in Italian so they may be sure to satisfy prerequisites and requirements within four years.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Express themselves in the target language on a number of subjects of practical and intellectual relevance. They can engage in conversations on complex ideas (i.e., discussion and analysis of a literary text) and are able to provide a supported argument, including emerging evidence
in support of their points of view.
2. Comprehend a broad range of subjects of practical and intellectual relevance based on the specific vocabulary studied.
3. Comprehend complex texts previously presented and discussed in class (i.e., novels, short stories, essays, newspapers articles), and understand their main ideas and supporting details. They are able to derive meaning from context and linguistic features.
4. Write summaries, descriptions and critical interpretations of complex texts (i.e., on canonical literary works of the Middle Ages and of the Modernity) using different tenses and expressing their points of view.
5. Demonstrate a general knowledge of Italian culture giving examples from literature, art, history, geography, religion, politics, film and music. Students recognize differences in cultural behavior between their own culture and Italian culture.
Study Abroad
Students studying Italian are strongly encouraged to spend a semester or a year abroad. Syracuse University’s program in Florence, Italy, enables students to take fully accredited classes in Italian language and literature, fine arts, history, political science, and a number of electives outside arts and sciences. For students fluent in Italian, placements are available at the Centro per Stranieri at the University of Florence. For further information, contact the Italian program coordinator or Syracuse University Abroad, 106 Walnut Place.
Major Requirements
The major has two tracks. The first option is to pursue a major in Italian language, literature and culture, which consists of ITA 202 plus 24 credits in upper-division courses. Eighteen of the credits in upper-division courses are from courses taught in Italian; 6 of the credits may be in upper-division courses taught in Italian, in English, or in English with assignments in Italian as approved by the program advisor. LIT courses at the 200 level taught in English by faculty in the Italian Program may be substituted for upper-division courses taught in English to satisfy the major requirements.
The second option is to pursue a major in Italian Studies, which consists of ITA202 plus 24 credits in upper-division courses. At least twelve of the credits in upper-division courses are taught in Italian. Of the remaining twelve credits, at least 3 credits must be in LIT 200 or above taught by faculty in the Italian Program, and nine may be in upper-division courses taught in Italian, in English, or in different disciplines while relevant to Italian Studies, as approved by the Program Advisor.
Note:
*As approved by the program advisor.

