Knowledge Management, BPS
Contact:
Associate Dean:
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Program Director: 
Steve Wallace, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, swalla02@syr.edu
Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Description:

The Bachelor of Professional Studies major in Knowledge Management is the cross section between data science, computer science and people.  Knowledge management encompasses the process of applying a systematic approach to the capture, structuring, management, and dissemination of knowledge throughout an organization.  Knowledge resources exist in the people, processes, and technology of organizations and are often lost as individuals depart.  Capturing these resources into a formal and reusable construct allows organizations to focus on growth and innovation through sharing and applying of knowledge while remembering and documenting lessons learned creating an organizational memory.
BPS students must declare a program of study by the time they have reached junior standing, in a meeting with their Academic Advisor.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Explain the role of technology, its use as a resource tool in organizations and society, social media, data mining/security.
2. Apply knowledge gained in program to make sense of the amount of data available, systematically problem-solve and be able to propose creative/design-thinking solutions.
3. Develop tasks and work processes for desired organizational outcomes, ability to work face-to-face or virtually, and to critically and ethically analyze big data.
4. Evaluate the organizational leadership of knowledge management curation and transfer in a local and global workforce.
Requirements
Courses (required and elective): 120 credits - divided into 4 segments:
Liberal Studies Core 30-37 credits
Professional Competencies Core 30 credits
Concentration Program of Study 30 credits
Electives 23-30 credits.
Additional Information
No more than three courses (9 credits) may be taken in the School of Management.
Liberal Studies Core - 30-37 credits
(Mandatory for both programs of study.)
The Liberal Studies Core gives a foundation in writing, language or quantitative skills, humanities, social science, natural science, and critical reflections. It draws upon lower-division courses in the College of Arts and Sciences.
Writing (Choose 6 credits)
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Foreign Language or Quantitative Skills (Choose 6-12 credits)
Foreign Language:
Complete Language Skills Sequence Requirement outlined in the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Quantitative Skills:
Complete Quantitative Skills Sequence Requirement outlined in the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Humanities (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Humanities Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Social Science (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Social Sciences Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Natural Science (Choose 3-4 credits)
Any course listed in the Natural Sciences Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Critical Reflections on Ethical & Social Issues (Choose 3 Credits)
Any course listed in the Critical Reflections on Ethical & Social Issues Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Students are required to select one Liberal Arts Core Course that meets the IDEA requirement
Professional Competencies Core - 30 credits
The Professional Competencies Core covers fundamental knowledge and abilities required in the modern workplace, such as ethics and critical thinking, problem solving, human relations, diversity and change management, budgeting and resource management, and teamwork. The Professional Competencies Core includes an introductory course, and a capstone experience required of all B.P.S. students. Designed to draw together issues from across the entire B.P.S. program, these courses summarize concepts covered in the curriculum and develop students’ skills in strategic decision-making that looks to the future.
Required Courses (9 Credits)
BPS 211 - Introduction to Professional Studies
BPS 411 - Senior Seminar
BPS 144 - Orange Immersion
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
Choose 7 from list below (21 Credits):
BPS 315 - Practical Financial Management for the Working Professional
LGL 403 - Business Organizations
BPS 303 - Introduction to Change Management
BPS 317 - Assertiveness in the Workplace for Professional Studies
BPS 321 - Rhetorical Awareness and the Diverse Workplace
BPS 325 - Creative and Design Thinking for Professional Studies
BPS 382 - Leading Cooperative Negotiations
CRL 311 - Professional Issues in Creative Leadership
CRL 313 - Strategic Leadership in Professional Studies
CRL 342 - Customer Relations Leadership
CRL 472 - Organizational Leadership
PPM 325 - Project Communications and Stakeholder Management
Program of Study Requirements: Knowledge Management (30 credits)
Required:
KNM 301 - Introduction to Knowledge Management
KNM 310 - Knowledge Capture and Codification
KNM 311 - Safeguarding Knowledge Management and Codification Data
KNM 401 - Professional Issues in Knowledge Management
KNM 402 - Strategy and Planning
KNM 403 - Process Continuity and Future Planning
CRL 319 - Global Leadership
BPS 335 - Conflict in Business and Management for Professional Studies
BPS 415 - Digital and Business Communications for Professional Studies
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
Note:
The degree is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

