Latino-Latin American Studies, BA
Myrna Garcia, Director
mygarcia@syr.edu
310 H.B.C.
315-443-9489
Faculty:
Doug Armstrong, Hans Buechler, Gail Bulman, John Burdick, Horace Campbell, AH Peter Castro, Matt Cleary, Francine D’Amico, Pedro DiPietro, Kwame Dixon, Kathryn Everly, Stephanie Fetta, Alejandro Garcia, Bea Gonzalez, Martha Hanson, Dennis Harrod, Sydney Hutchinson, Amy Lutz, Gladys McCormick, Aja Martinez, Roberto Moreno, Arthur Paris, Jane Read, Alicia Rios, David Robinson, Silvio Torres-Saillant, Will Scheibel, Jamie Winder
The Latino-Latin American Studies program of the College of Arts and Sciences leads to the B.A. degree and embraces an interdisciplinary approach to culture, development, resources, history, and societies of these critical regions and their peoples. This recently modified and innovative program is designed to promote awareness and understanding of the many issues faced by the Latino and Latin American peoples of the western hemisphere. A wide range of faculty from several departments and with complementary perspectives provide a stimulating entry into the interrelated worlds of Latino America and Latin America.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Articulate a strong historical knowledge of Latin American, Spanish Caribbean and Latino history and culture
2. Think critically about historical and cultural debates in the region
3. Learn appropriate terminology in varied fields of study in order to reflect critically in class discussions as well as in written assignments about topics in different fields of study related to the area
4. Read and think critically about the region through the use of primary and secondary documents and texts
5. Demonstrate critical thinking skills in addressing complex topics from different perspectives related to the area of study
Major Requirements
Students are required to take 30 credits of coursework, 24 of which are in courses numbered above 299. Courses should be selected from the following list in consultation with the advisor. Additional courses in African American Studies, Anthropology, English and Textual Studies, History, History of Art, History of Music, Geography, Political Sciences, Spanish, Women and Gender Studies and Writing Studies, Writing and Composition are recommended and may be petitioned for LAS credit in consultation with the program director. Many courses in the SU Santiago program have LAS prefixes and also count towards the major.
Anthropology
LAS 318 - South American Cultures
LAS 423 - Effects of Globalization in Latin America
Political Science
LAS 333 - Politics of Latin America
English
LAS 200 - Selected Topics Ethnic Literary Traditions (relevant courses)
ENG 230 - Topics in Ethnic Literary Traditions Ethnic Literary Traditions(relevant courses)
LAS 300 - Selected Topics Latino Fiction (relevant courses)
ENG 350 - Topics in Reading Nation and Empire Latino Fiction (relevant courses)
ENG 315 - Topics in Ethnic Literatures and Cultures  Literature of the Caribbean Diaspora
Geography
LAS 321 - Latin American Development: Spatial Aspects
LAS 325 - Colonialism in Latin America
LAS 520 - Research on Latin America
History
LAS 322 - Colonial Latin America
LAS 313 - Modern Latin America
LAS 324 - Recent Latin American History
Spanish
LAS 300 - Selected Topics Approaches to Reading Texts (relevant courses)
LAS 302 - Introduction to Latin American Literature
LAS 433 - Business Spanish
LAS 461 - Nobel Prize Writers of the Spanish-Speaking World
LAS 463 - Contemporary Latin American Theater
LAS 465 - Literature and Popular Culture
LAS 467 - Film and Literature
LAS 471 - Contemporary Latin American Literature
LAS 475 - Women, Myth and Nation in Latin American Literature
LAS 479 - Perspectives on Mexico and Central America: Literature, Art, Film
LAS 481 - The Literature of Latinos in the United States
LAS 489 - Hispanic Caribbean Narrative and Film
LAS 493 - Afro-Hispanic Topics in Caribbean Literature
LAS 495 - Marginal Cultures in Hispanic Caribbean Literature
LAS 497 - Text and Context in Cuban Revolutionary Literature
Additional Information
Additional courses may be petitioned with approval of advisor.

