LGBTQ Studies Minor
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, and Queer Studies

PJ DiPietro
Director of LGBTQ Studies
pjdipiet@syr.edu
Faculty
Barbara Applebaum, Dorri Beam, Susan Branson, Virginia Burrus, Linda Carty, Jorge Castillo, Albrecht Diem, PJ DiPietro, Carol Fadda, Carol Faulkner, Beth Ferri, Roger Hallas, Jenn Jackson, Coran Klaver, Andrew S. London, Vivian M. May, Charles Morris, Dana M. Olwan, Jackie Orr, Erin Rand, Robin Riley, William Robert, Perry Singleton, Matthieu van der Meer
LGBTQ Studies is a multidisciplinary academic field that addresses profound questions about gender and sexuality, identity and community, history and historiography, public memory and archives, human rights and citizenship, cultural productions and social justice activism from a transnational and intersectional perspective. 
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Describe what life has been like for LGBTQ people in different times and places
2. Identify theories (including queer theories and theories of power, agency, gender, and sexuality) that make sense of and explicate LGBTQ lives
3. Examine political actions taken by LGBTQ people in different times and places to effect social change
4. Use intersectionality as an analytic tool to examine LGBTQ lives nationally and transnationally
5. Become familiar with different traditions and ways of thinking about gender, sexuality, and desire
6. Analyze how cultural productions of and about LGBTQ people have represented their lives and identities
Requirements
The minor in LGBTQ Studies requires 18 credits of course work: two lower division core courses (QSX 111 - Queer Histories, Communities, and Politics and QSX 112 - Sexualities, Genders, Bodies) and four upper division courses approved for the minor. QSX 111 counts towards the social science requirement and QSX 112 counts towards the humanities divisional requirement in the Arts and Sciences Core Curriculum: both QSX 111 and QSX 112 count toward the critical reflections requirement. There are no cluster requirements for students; students may take any of the approved courses or petition to substitute other courses with substantial LGBT content or projects. Currently approved courses include those listed below.
Two Required Courses
Queer Histories, Communities, and Politics
Explores and analyzes queer, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender histories, communities and politics from the ancient past to the contemporary, global present through an interdisciplinary reading of research, theory, memoir, biography, fiction, and documentary film.
QSX 111 - Queer Histories, Communities, and Politics
Sexualities, Genders, Bodies
Explores how sexuality, gender, and embodiment are understood across communities and through time with an interdisciplinary analysis of literature, film, mass media, websites, research, and theory.
QSX 112 - Sexualities, Genders, Bodies
Four upper-division electives
Students may take any of the approved courses listed below, organized thematically and across disciplines. These are not cluster requirements. Students may also petition to substitute other courses that have substantial LGBTQ content and assignments.
Communities, Places, and Identities:
QSX 306 - Sexuality in Spain
SOC 306 - Sexuality in Spain
WGS 306 - Sexuality in Spain
SOC 456 - LGBT Studies in Sociology
QSX 456 - LGBT Studies in Sociology
When approved by program director when offered with appropriate topics e.g. ENG 360 Genders and Sexualities in the Arab World
Special Topics taught abroad that count for this reguirement include:
Exploring Culture and Society in Transition: Gender, Sexuality, Class, and Race in Poland
Business of Nightlife: London Subcultures
Sex, Gender, and the City
WGS 453 - Feminisms, Sexualities, and Human Rights in Middle Eastern Societies
Representation, Media, and Performance:
COM 346 - Race, Gender, and the Media
CRS 323 - Communication and Gender
FIL 416 - British Masculinity On Screen: James Bond and Sherlock Holmes
QSX 416 - British Masculinity: James Bond and Sherlock Holmes
When approved by program director when offered with appropriate topics e.g. ENG 360 Queering Documentary or ENG 360 Gender & Sexuality in Asian American Literature
WGS 416 - British Masculinity on Screen: James Bond and Sherlock Holmes
Institutions and Public Policy:
SWK 437 - LGBTQ Health and Well Being
Histories and Knowledges:
AAS 309 - Race, Gender and Sexuality in the African Diaspora
CRS 423 - Contemporary Rhetorics of Gender and Sexuality
HST 348 - Queering the Middle Ages?
QSX 348 - Queering the Middle Ages?
HST 389 - LGBT History
QSX 389 - LGBT History
REL 323 - Christianity and Sexuality
QSX 323 - Christianity and Sexuality
REL 357 - Queerly Religious
QSX 357 - Queerly Religious
WGS 343 - Latina Feminist Theories
When approved by program director when offered with appropriate topics e.g. ENG 360 What was Sex? 19th-Century American Literature and the History of Sexuality.
WGS 438 - Trans Genders and Sexualities

