Linguistic Studies, BA
Contact
Director
Amanda Brown
323C H.B. Crouse
abrown08@syr.edu
Undergraduate Advisor
Christopher R. Green
330 H.B. Crouse
cgreen10@syr.edu
Faculty
Core LIN faculty: Tej K. Bhatia, Amanda Brown, Christopher R. Green, Gerald R. Greenberg, Rania Habib, Jaklin Kornfilt, Kenji Oda, Adam Roth Singerman, Maria Emma Ticio Quesada
Select affiliated faculty: Janice Dowell, Kevan Edwards, Stephanie McMillan, Jonathan Preston, Michael Rieppel, Ellyn Riley, Sylvia Sierra, Victoria Tumanova, Robert Van Gulick
Linguistics is the study of the nature and use of language and provides insight into the workings of the human mind. The major ties together studies in many areas, such as anthropology, child and family studies, computer science, English and other languages, geography, literary criticism, mathematics, philosophy, psychology, sociology, speech communication, speech pathology, and linguistics proper.
LIN 201 is an introduction to linguistic studies and is a prerequisite to the major and to advanced courses. It does not, however, count toward major requirements.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Analyze claims about human communication and about the innate language competence in humans
2. Explain claims about specific languages and the universal principles that underlie the knowledge of all languages
3. Analyze the structure of one or more particular languages and the cultural context associated with its use 
4. Apply the social, cognitive, physiological, historical methods of linguistics to related areas including language and thought, language acquisition, language comprehension, language production, language use, and language teaching
Major Requirements
Linguistic studies majors and prospective majors must consult the director of the program before registration.
Students must fulfill the following language requirements:
the Liberal Arts Core Language Skills requirement in one language; and
successfully complete at least 6 credits in an additional language (other than English) that is structurally significantly different from the language used to fulfill the Liberal Arts Core requirement. The following pairs of languages cannot be used to fulfill this requirement: Korean/Japanese, Russian/Polish, Arabic/Hebrew. No pair of languages from the following group may be used to fulfill this requirement: Spanish/Portuguese/Italian/French/Latin.
In addition, students successfully complete three core courses
LIN 301 - Introductory Linguistic Analysis
LIN 431 - Phonological Analysis
LIN 441 - Syntactic Analysis
Major requirements also include the successful completion of at least 18 credits of additional work, of which at least 9 credits are in courses numbered 300 or above. The 18 credits must be in approved linguistic studies courses, chosen from at least three of the following groups:
Psychology and Biology of Language
COG 301 - Introduction to Cognitive Science
CSD 212 - Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders
CSD 315 - Anatomy and Physiology of the Speech and Hearing Mechanisms
CSD 316 - Introduction to Applied Phonetics
CSD 345 - Speech Science
CSD 409 - Cognitive Neuroscience of Speech and Language
CSD 422 - Development of Speech and Language
LIN 371 - Dimensions of Bilingualism and Multiculturalism
LIN 375 - Forensic Linguistics
LIN 392 - Second Language Acquisition
Language in Culture and Society
CRS 384 - Discourse and Society
CRS 430 - Intercultural Communication
LIN 202 - Diversity of World Languages
LIN 208 - Indigenous Languages: Their Past, Present, and Future
LIN 373 - Language Variation and Change
LIN 374 - Topics in Sociolinguistics
LIN 381 - Global Communication Through World Englishes
Logic and Language
PHI 251 - Logic
PHI 451 - Logic and Language
PHI 551 - Mathematical Logic
PHI 552 - Modal Logic
PHI 565 - Philosophy of Language
History and Structure of Language
LIN 202 - Diversity of World Languages
LIN 251 - English Words
LIN 303 - Language Universals and Typology
LIN 305 - Linguistic Structure of English
LIN 312 - Meaning and Communication
LIN 326 - Structure of Standard Arabic
LIN 406 - Field Methods in Linguistics
LIN 411 - Semantics of Human Languages
LIN 451 - Morphological Analysis
LIN 461 - Introduction to Historical Linguistics
SPA 435 - Spanish Phonetics and Phonology
SPA 436 - The Structure of Spanish
SPA 437 - Introduction to Spanish Linguistics
Language Pedagogy
LIN 321 - Introduction to Methodology of Teaching Languages: English/Foreign Language Teaching
LIN 422 - Advanced Methods of Teaching Languages: English/Foreign Language Teaching

