Mathematics, BS
Contact:
Department Chair: Graham J. Leuschke, 215 Carnegie Building, gjleusch@syr.edu, 315-443-1478
Associate Chair for Undergraduate Studies: Leonid Kovalev, 311C Carnegie Building, lvkovale@syr.edu, 315-443-1487
Major Advisors:
S.P. Diaz, L. Kovalev, A. Vogel, S. Wehrli
Faculty
Uday Banerjee, Pinyuen Chen, Dan Coman, Steven Diaz, Nicole M.L. Fonger, Pierre Yves Gaudreau Lamarre, Jack E. Graver, Duane Graysay, Lee Kennard, Hyune-Ju Kim, Leonid Kovalev, Loredana Lanzani, Graham J. Leuschke, Wei Li, Jianxuan Liu, Adam Lutoborski, Joanna O. Masingila, Claudia Miller, Jani Onninen, Josh Pollitz, Declan Quinn, Lixin Shen, Gregory Verchota, Andrew Vogel, Stephan Wehrli, William Wylie, Yuan Yuan, Yiming Zhao
As a preliminary requirement for the mathematics major, students complete 18 credits in the following classes with no grade below a C: MAT 295, MAT 296, MAT 331, MAT 397, and MAT 375. These courses are prerequisites for most upper-division courses. The following sequence is recommended: MAT 295 in the first semester; MAT 296 in the second semester; MAT 331, MAT 397 in the third semester; and MAT 375 when appropriate. However, students with knowledge of trigonometry and a year of high school calculus may be able to enter the sequence at MAT 296 or even MAT 397; students with less preparation may be advised to complete MAT 194 before beginning the calculus sequence. Students considering becoming mathematics majors are strongly encouraged to talk to a mathematics major advisor as soon as possible. Computer science students (only) who have credit for CIS 375, and are pursuing a dual major in mathematics, need not take MAT 375.
Students who plan to pursue graduate study in mathematics should obtain the B.S. degree and consider taking at least one first-year graduate (600-level) course.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Demonstrate facility with the techniques of single and multivariable Calculus and Linear Algebra
2. Effectively communicate mathematical ideas
3. Make accurate calculations by hand and with technological assistance
4. Reproduce essential assumptions, definitions, examples, and statements of important theorems
5. Describe the logical structure of the standard proof formats, reproduce the underlying ideas of the proofs of basic theorems, and create simple original proofs
6. Solve problems using advanced undergraduate methods from each of the core areas of pure mathematics: Algebra, Analysis, and Probability
B.S. Degree Requirements
Students interested in pursuing the B.S. degree in mathematics obtain, in advance, the approval of a mathematics major advisor and the department chair of a petition to the effect that the upper-division courses to be taken satisfy the requirement for a B.S. degree.
In Addition to the Preliminary Requirement
In addition to the preliminary requirement described above, the student is required to complete the following coursework with an average of at least 2.0 and no grade below a D:
MAT 412 - Introduction to Real Analysis I (analysis sequence)
MAT 512 - Introduction to Real Analysis II (analysis sequence)
MAT 531 - Second Course in Linear Algebra (algebra sequence)
MAT 534 - Introduction to Abstract Algebra (algebra sequence)
MAT 521 - Introduction to Probability (probability and statistics)
And at least one of these:
MAT 414 - Introduction to Ordinary Differential Equations (differential equations) or
MAT 551 - Fundamental Concepts of Geometry (geometry)
12 Additional Credits in Mathematics
And 12 additional credits in mathematics (MAT) courses numbered 490 or higher, except MAT 503. With prior approval of the mathematics major advisor, a student may substitute another MAT course numbered 490 or higher for the MAT 412 requirement. Up to 6 credits in advanced courses in other departments that have been approved in advance by the student’s major advisor may be included in the 12 credits.
Distinction in Mathematics
Distinction in Mathematics is awarded by the Mathematics Department upon completion of a B.S. in mathematics with a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.4, a minimum GPA of 3.6 in mathematics (MAT) courses at the 300+ level, and either an A or A- in the Senior Seminar or a high-quality Capstone Thesis. See the Mathematics Department undergraduate advisor for additional requirements.

