Medicolegal Death Investigation Certificate
Contact:
Michael Sponsler, sponsler@syr.edu
Professor of Chemistry, Director of Curricular Programs for the Forensic and National Security Sciences Institute at Syracuse University
1-133 Center Sci & Tech
315-443-4880
Faculty:
Kathleen Corrado, James Crill, Deepika Das, Brian Ehret, Ulrich Englich, James Hewett, Michael Marciano, Natalie Novotna, Maria Pettolina, Robert Silver, James T. Spencer, Michael B. Sponsler, Robert Stoppacher
Program Description:
The Certificate in Medicolegal Death Investigation is a 12-credit program intended primarily for students who have a career interest in death investigation.  The Certificate serves as an indication that the student has had a concentration of courses in this field and is ready to embark on this career path.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Define the field of forensic science and describe how it overlaps with their particular interests
2. Describe the relationship and interplay between forensic science and the legal system
3. Appreciate the importance of ethical standards and describe the means through which such standards are upheld in forensic science
4. Demonstrate how crime scenes are processed, how chain of custody is preserved and documented, and how medicolegal death investigators and crime scene investigators work together
5. Explain the duties of a medicolegal death investigator
Requirements
I. Required Courses - 6 Credits Required
FSC 435 - Medicolegal Death Investigation I
FSC 451 - Forensic Pathology
II. Electives - 6 Credits Required
FSC 332 - Intro to Forensic Anthropology
FSC 434 - Anatomy & Physiology for Forensic Medicine
FSC 435 - Medicolegal Death Investigation I
FSC 453 - Forensic Toxicology
FSC 463 - Bloodstain Pattern Analysis
FSC 467 - Forensic Photography
FSC 468 - Crime Scene Investigation
FSC 470 - Experience Credit (Internship in a medical examiner’s office, related to forensic pathology and/or medicolegal death investigation)
ANT 433 - Human Osteology
Transfer Credit
Maximum of 3 credits
Part-time Study
May be pursued
Degree
Certificate in Medicolegal Death Investigation
Total Credits: 12 (limit of 3 transfer credits)

