Mindfulness and Contemplative Studies Minor
Minor Coordinator
Rachel Razza, Chair
144D White Hall
315-443-7377
rrazza@syr.edu
Description
Mindfulness and contemplative practice are experiential modes of learning and self-inquiry. Contemplative practices are widely varied and include various forms of meditation, focused thought, writing, creative/performing arts, and yoga. Mindfulness and contemplative practices can foster greater empathy and communication skills, improve focus and attention, reduce stress, and enhance creativity and general wellbeing. Given these advantages, these skills are of growing interest to researchers and practitioners from diverse fields. The purpose of this minor is to provide students with a fundamental understanding of mindfulness and contemplative study and practice, and opportunities to cultivate these skills in their courses and apply them in their communities. This minor would be of interest to students Human Development and Family Science, as well as to those in other social sciences, health sciences and education.
Admission
The minor in Mindfulness and Contemplative Studies is available to all University students with a Cum GPA of 2.0 or above on a space-available basis. To be admitted to the program, students must submit a Declaration of Minor form to their academic advisor, the undergraduate program director of Human Development and Family Science and their home college dean’s office.
Student Learning Outcomes
In this minor, students will gain a fundamental understanding of mindfulness and contemplative study and practice and have opportunities to cultivate these skills in their courses and apply them in their communities.
Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
1. Explain principles of mindfulness and contemplative practices.
2. Analyze how research is utilized to understand how mindfulness influences individual development.
3. Critically evaluate mindfulness-based practices across diverse settings.
4. Cultivate mindfulness and contemplative practices to apply to selected communities.
Curriculum Requirements
The minor in Mindfulness and Contemplative Studies requires the completion of six courses (18 credits), three of which are mandatory and three of which are electives. The two mandatory courses include (6 credits):
HFS 452 - Mindfulness in Children and Youth
PHP 405 - Science and Practice of Mindfulness
Students must select four of the following courses as electives for the minor (12 credits):
ARI 331 - Eye Hand Body Mind through Drawing
CRS 336 - Communication and Organizational Diversity
CRS 347 - Mindful Communication Skills
CRS 447 - Mindful Communication Theory
HFS 458 - Science of Caring and Sharing
PHP 301 - Holistic Healing Practices
REL 185 - Hinduism
REL 186 - Buddhism
REL 327 - Yoga-Ancient Religion to Modern Practice
Total Credits Required: 18
(6 of the 12 elective credits must be in 300 to 400 level courses).
Restrictions:
The minor is open to all Syracuse University students, including HDFS majors.
Notes:
Note that no more than 6 credits from a department can count toward the minor.

