Musical Theater, BFA
Contact
Brian Cimmet, Program Coordinator

820 East Genesee Street
315-443-2669
bcimmet@syr.edu
Faculty
Rufus Bonds Jr., Kerry Bereza, Kiira Schmidt Carper, Brian Cimmet, Diane Coloton, Marina de Ratmiroff, Danita Emma, Marcus Herndon, Rebecca Karpoff, Richard Koons, Andrea Leigh-Smith, David Lowenstein, Felipe Panamà,  Abel Searor, Jacob E. Stebly, Bradley Stone, Kathleen Wrinn
Description
The purpose of the musical theater program is to train students in a systematic way that prepares them to compete realistically in the complex professional world of musical theater. Achieving this goal requires a carefully structured balance of studio and academic work. Musical theater studio work requires skills not only in dramatic performance, but in music and dance as well. Students develop their skills in a structured, intensive format that features careful and expert guidance.
Performance is a major focus of the 128-credit program. Students gain skills and experience in the various modes of musical theater: the revue, traditional musical comedies, operettas, and new and experimental forms. Coursework includes a balance of acting, voice, dance, theater history, music theory, and liberal education studies.
The first year is the foundation for all future training. It focuses on techniques of acting, ballet, voice-both singing and speaking-sight-singing, music theory, dramatic theory, and technical theater crafts. Writing is also a requirement for all musical theater majors. The first year is a non-performance year, but students are assigned to work on one production behind the scenes. They may elect to work on additional productions in a wide variety of jobs.
After the first year, students may audition for all productions-musicals, dramas, films-i.e., all productions connected with the Department of Drama, Syracuse Stage and the wider University. They also begin specialized training in musical theater performance, scene study, audition techniques, musical theater history, musical theater dance, and choreography. Supplementing these studies are courses in theater history, additional weekly lessons in voice, vocal ensemble experience, piano, and academic electives.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Sing with a flexible voice that can execute the requisite sounds and styles of the MT repertoire, drawing on a wide and diverse heritage of music genres
2. Exhibit technical and stylistic proficiency in the various dance forms of musical theater, drawing on a wide and diverse heritage of dance genres
3. Demonstrate the acting techniques to create and inhabit various characters, including material with which they can personally and artistically identify
4. Apply the acquired skills of analysis, in music and acting, to the preparation of a wide and diverse variety of literature for performance
5. Demonstrate the ability to participate and contribute to collaborative artistic endeavors to a professional standard
Program Requirements
Drama Requirements: 34 credits
DRA 115 - Drama in Context I
DRD 115 - Introduction to Theater Production I
DRD 116 - Introduction to Theater Production II
DRA 125 - Introduction to Acting I - Majors
DRA 126 - Introduction to Acting II - Majors
DRA 221 - Voice/Verse I
DRA 222 - Voice/Verse II
DRA 220 - Introduction to Scene Study (x2) 3 credits each
DRA 352 - Survey of Theater History
Upper Level Acting Course (3 credits)
DRA 127 - Core Intensives
Musical Theater Requirements: 28 credits
DRA 151 - Foundations of Musical Theater I
DRA 153 - Introduction to Musical Theater Literature
DRA 161 - The Musical Theater Singer’s Voice
DRA 162 - Musical Theater Skills
DRA 251 - Foundations of Musical Theater II
DRA 261 - Musical Theater Performance I
DRA 262 - Musical Theater Performance II
DRA 362 - Musical Theater Scene Study
DRA 450 - Advanced Musical Theater Performance
DRA 453 - History of Musical Theater
DRA 462 - Auditioning for Musical Theater
Dance Requirements 18 credits
Ballet (x4)  (2 credits each)
Dance Electives (x5) (2 credits each)
(eight credits MUST be at the 300-level or higher)
 Applied Music: 9 credits
DRA 118 - Vocal Techniques for Musical Theater Majors I (x2) 1 credit each
DRA 218 - Vocal Techniques for Musical Theater Majors II (x2) 1 credit each
DRA 318 - Vocal Techniques for Musical Theater Majors III (x2) 1 credit each
DRA 418 - Vocal Techniques for Musical Theater Majors IV
PNO 120 - Piano Instruction (x2) 1 credit each
Theatre Laboratory: 0 credits
DRA 090 - Theater Lab 
Seven Required Semesters of Theater Lab  (total of zero credits)
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Academic Electives: 23 credits
Academic electives are courses that involve critical thinking and theoretical understanding as opposed to practical application, mostly in the Liberal Arts. These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, entrepreneurship, and languages, among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here. A maximum of 9 credits out of 23 can be from the department of drama.
Drama Electives: 9 credits
Drama electives (also known as drama support) are courses that are not required specifically for the student’s program of study, but which are meant to enhance their understanding of their major field or their overall undergraduate experience.
Note:
Students may only have a combined total of 12 credits from Independent Study, Experience Credit, or Internships.
Total Credits Required: 128
Degree Awarded: BFA in Musical Theater

