Performance, BMus
Contact
José “Peppie” Calvar, Chair, Department of Applied Music and Performance

302 Crouse College, 315-443-4106, jcalvar@syr.edu
Faculty
Voice:  Janet Brown, Julia Ebner, Eric Johnson, Kathleen Roland-Silverstein, Julianna Sabol, Martha Sutter
Piano:  Scott Cuellar, Ida Tili-Trebicka, Milton Laufer
Organ:  Anne Laver
Strings:  William Knuth - Violin/Viola, Gregory Wood - Cello, Spencer Phillips - String Bass, Kenneth Meyer - Guitar, Jessica Wilbee - Harp
Winds and Percussion:  Dana DiGennaro - Flute, Alina Plourde - Oboe, Jill Coggiola - Clarinet, Anne Kunkle - Saxophone, Blaire Koerner - Bassoon, Jon Garland - Horn, John Raschella - Trumpet, Michael Coldren - Euphonium/Tuba, Michael W. Bull - Percussion
Description
The performance program stresses the development of technical skills, repertory, poise, and overall musicianship. Since most performers continue study beyond the bachelor’s degree, the program also provides a sound basis for advanced study. To reflect preparation for upper-division recital(s), upper-division credits in the principal performance area increase from 2 to 4 credits per hour of instruction.
Student Learning Outcomes
Principal Performance Area (Lower Division Sequence):



a. demonstrate functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level.
b. perform a cross-section of repertoire.



Secondary Performance Area/Keyboard Competency (Lower Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate functional keyboard skills to support musicianship at the appropriate level.



Harmony & Analysis (Lower Division Sequence):
a. identify/describe common elements and organizational patterns of music and their aural and verbal analysis.
b. identify/describe musical forms, processes, and structures.



Aural Skills & Analysis (Lower Division Sequence):
a. produce and recognize music at the appropriate level.



Ensemble Performance (Lower Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate artistry and technical skills in an ensemble setting.
b. demonstrate collaborative competency and knowledge of the ensemble’s repertoire.



History & Repertoire (Lower Division Sequence):
a. describe music history and identify repertoire through the present time, including the study and experience of musical languages and cultures.



Principal Performance Area (Upper Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level.
b. perform a cross-section of repertoire.



Ensemble Performance (Upper Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate artistry and technical skills in an ensemble setting.
b. demonstrate collaborative competency and knowledge of the ensemble’s repertoire.



Music Conducting (Upper Division Sequence):
a. work as a leader, and in collaboration, on matters of musical interpretation.



Performance Major Sophomore Evaluation:
a. demonstrate skills for functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level.
b. demonstrate the ability to perform a cross-section of repertoire.
Performance Major Junior Recital:
a. demonstrate skills for functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level.
b. demonstrate the ability to perform a cross-section of repertoire.



Performance Major Senior Recital:
a. demonstrate skills for functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level.
b. demonstrate the ability to perform a cross-section of repertoire.
Program Requirements
Major Requirements: 52 credits


PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE AREA: 24 credits
SECONDARY PERFORMANCE AREA: 4 credits
(Keyboard Skills unless Piano or Organ Student)
MTC 145 - Diatonic Harmony I
MTC 146 - Diatonic Harmony II
MTC 147 - Ear Training I
MTC 148 - Ear Training II
MTC 245 - Chromatic Harmony I
MTC 246 - Chromatic Harmony II
MTC 247 - Ear Training III
MTC 248 - Ear Training IV
MTC 545 - Counterpoint
MTC 546 - Analysis of Contemporary Music
Music History and Literature: 15 credits
MHL 185 - Introduction to World Music
MHL 267 - European Music before 1800
MHL 268 - European and American Music Since 1800
MHL 500-level or above course (3 credits)
MHL 566 - Topics in Music Literature and Analysis
or
MTC 566 - Topics in Music Literature and Analysis
Large Ensembles: 8 credits
One Large Ensemble Required for Each Semester in Residence

Small Ensembles: 4 credits
Weekly Student Convocations: 0 credits
Required for Each Semester in Residence

Required Area-Specific, Music Industry, and Elective Courses: 14 credits
Area-Specific Music Pedagogy/Music Literature/Diction (5-9 credits)
Choose required pedagogy, literature, and (if voice) diction courses specific to individual performance area; if required course credits fall below 9 the balance of credits is moved to Electives below

AMC 545 - Diction in Singing
AMC 546 - Diction in Singing
MHL 428 - Organ Literature
MHL 448 - History of Wind Ensemble Literature
MHL 525 - Survey of Keyboard Literature: 1650 to 1850
MHL 526 - Survey of Keyboard Literature: 1850 to Present
MHL 535 - Orchestral Repertoire: 1600-1800
MHL 536 - Advanced Orchestral Repertoire
MHL 546 - Vocal Literature I
MUE 326 - Teaching of Brass Instruments
MUE 327 - Teaching of Woodwind Instruments I
MUE 328 - Teaching of Woodwind Instruments II
MUE 423 - Teaching of Percussion Instruments
PDG 519 - Vocal Pedagogy
PDG 527 - Piano Pedagogy
PDG 530 - Workshop in Teaching of Strings
Music Industry/Music Electives (5-9 credits)
Must include at least one MUI course from the list below; otherwise, remaining credits in this area are elective and include balance of credits from above; no HOM courses allowed

MUI 305 - Music Industry Marketing and Media
MUI 320 - Syracuse University Recordings
MUI 405 - Music Industry Law and Ethics
Recitals
Junior and Senior Performance Recitals are entered as Milestones on the student transcript

Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Academic Electives: 24 credits


Foreign Language (4 credits)
Social Sciences (6 credits)
Arts & Sciences Electives (3 credits)
IDEA Elective (3 credits)
FYS 101 - First year Seminar (1 credit)
Academic Electives  (7 credits)
HOM Courses allowed as Academic Electives
Up to 3 credits may be from Physical Education
Total Credits Required: 123
Degree Awarded: BM Performance

