Philosophy, BA
Contact:
Director of Undergraduate Studies
541 Hall of Languages
315-443-2245
Faculty
Martin Abreu Zavaleta, Luvell Anderson, Kenneth Baynes, William “Ben” Bradley, Janice Dowell, Kevan Edwards, Verena Erlenbusch-Anderson, Samuel Gorovitz, Mark Heller, Josh Hunt, Karin Nisenbaum, Christopher Noble, Hille Paakkunainen, Kara Richardson, Michael Rieppel, Erica Shumener, David Sobel, Robert Van Gulick, Elise Woodard
Description
Using reason and argument, philosophers seek to answer the most fundamental of questions: What am I? What can I know? What must I do? Because the study of philosophy so effectively sharpens and extends the mind, many students find it to be the ideal companion to other courses of study.
The philosophy curriculum has two principal divisions. The first division consists of studies that are central to philosophy proper. There are four core areas: ethics, logic, metaphysics and the theory of knowledge, and the history of philosophy. The second division includes courses devoted to the philosophical examination of other areas of inquiry and culture, such as mathematics, the natural and social sciences, language, politics and the law, the arts, history, education, and religion.
Students particularly interested in political philosophy should see the program description under that heading here.
Students particularly interested in logic should see the description of the logic concentration, included under “Interdisciplinary Minors” in this section of the catalog.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Explain core philosophical concepts and theories and their historical development
2. Critically evaluate philosophical theories and arguments
3. Write clearly and concisely, and organize their writing effectively
4. Conduct independent research on a philosophical topic by finding, assessing, and employing relevant literature
Major Requirements
Students seeking a BA in philosophy are required to complete at least 30 credit hours in philosophy, at least 24 credits of which are numbered 300 or above. In order for a course to count towards a student’s major program, the student must receive a grade of C or better in the course. Each student must fulfill the following requirements:
PHI 251 - Logic
PHI 401 - Seminar for Philosophy Majors
At least two of the following courses in the history of philosophy:
PHI 307 - Ancient Greek and Roman Philosophy
PHI 308 - Classical Islamic Philosophy
PHI 311 - The Rationalists
PHI 313 - British Philosophy
PHI 317 - Political Philosophy: The Social Contract Tradition and its Critics
PHI 391 - History of Ethics
PHI 418 - Hegel, Marx, and Nietzsche
PHI 510 - Topics in Ancient Greek and Roman Philosophy
Note:
*Other appropriate courses as approved by the Director of Undergraduate Studies
Metaphysics, Epistemology, Mind, Language, and Logic: At least one of the following:
PHI 321 - Twentieth Century Theories of Knowledge, Reality, and Meaning
PHI 373 - Introduction to the Philosophy of Science
PHI 375 - Philosophy of Biology:What Can Evolution Explain?
PHI 376 - Philosophy of Mind
PHI 377 - Philosophy of Psychology
PHI 378 - Minds and Machines
PHI 381 - Metaphysics
PHI 383 - Free Will
PHI 385 - Personal Identity
PHI 387 - Epistemology
PHI 451 - Logic and Language
PHI 551 - Mathematical Logic
PHI 552 - Modal Logic
PHI 555 - Philosophy of Mathematics
PHI 565 - Philosophy of Language
PHI 573 - Philosophy of Physical Science
PHI 575 - Philosophy of Social Science
PHI 576 - Philosophy of Mind
Note:
*Other appropriate course approved by the Director of Undergraduate Studies
Value Theory: At least one of the following:
PHI 317 - Political Philosophy: The Social Contract Tradition and its Critics
PHI 379 - American Slavery and the Holocaust
PHI 391 - History of Ethics
PHI 393 - Contemporary Ethics
PHI 394 - Environmental Ethics
PHI 395 - Philosophy of Art
PHI 396 - Stem Cells and Society
PHI 397 - Philosophy of Law
PHI 398 - Medical Ethics
PHI 417 - Contemporary Political Philosophy
PHI 493 - Contemporary Ethical Issues
PHI 593 - Ethics and the Health professions
PHI 594 - Bioethics
Note:
*Other appropriate course approved by the Director of Undergraduate Studies

