Photography, Video and Design Minor
Coordinator:
Brad Stalter, Academic Advisor
316 Newhouse 3, 315-443-4722, bcstalte@syr.edu
College:
The S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications oversees this minor.
Goal
The members of the Visual Communications Department know that life is enriched with the knowledge of how to make high-quality, meaningful images. The purpose of this minor is to provide photography, video and design expertise to complement the student’s primary area of study.
Audience
This minor is intended for Syracuse University students who are not enrolled in the School of Public Communications. Photography, video and design are valuable tools, of benefit to the architect, sociologist, biologist, forester, anthropologist, teacher, fashion designer, and students pursuing many other professions.
Entrance Requirements
Applicants are admitted on a space-available basis depending upon a cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher. To be eligible, a student must have completed 30 credits at Syracuse University in courses graded A-F. Students should declare their Photography, Design and Video minor by the spring of their sophomore year. Students who apply after their sophomore year may have to commit to being on campus for an extra semester to complete the requirements of this minor. Applications should be submitted to the Newhouse Advising Office (316 Newhouse 3).
Restricted Graduate Credit
With permission after completion of the departmental review of their work, a student may choose to take 6 of their remaining 12 credits in the minor at the graduate level. If this option is chosen, the graduate level courses may be used towards the Multimedia, Photography and Design master’s degree. Students have from the time grades are posted for the course(s) up until the fall of their senior year to declare if the graduate credit will count in their minor or if they are going to use it towards their graduate degree. If completing the graduate credits and continuing into the graduate program, students will be required to drop the minor before graduation in order for these credits to count in a graduate degree. If students are not going to use the graduate credits in a graduate program, they will need to petition the University to allow those credits to be used in their undergraduate requirements.
For students that choose to apply for the Multimedia, Photography and Design master’s program, a portfolio is required for admission and should be sent separately to Professor Renee Stevens, Chair, Visual Communications Department. Images should be presented on a personal website or through social media channels. Please send appropriate URLs to Professor Stevens at rcsteven@syr.edu.  If you do not have some type of portfolio, GRE test scores must be submitted instead.
Curriculum Requirements
Students must complete 18 credits of which 12 credits must be 300-level or above.

Two Required Courses (6 credits)
COM 107 - Communications and Society
VIS 201 - Introduction to Photography for Multimedia
Or
VIS 207 - Introduction to Graphic Design
Minor Emphasis (Declared after department review):
Students will complete a departmental review of their work, using work from their introductory courses-VIS 201 or VIS 207, and/or previous work. Following the review and working with their advisor, students will be required to declare a minor emphasis that satisfies their individual career goals.

Minor Emphasis (Choose one)
Photography (12 credits)
Students must have completed VIS 201.
VIS 301 - Video and Photography
VIS 324 - Light and Concept
VIS 405 - Photographic Storytelling
Newhouse Elective (chosen with department advisor)
Or
Video (12 credits)
Students must have completed VIS 201.
VIS 301 - Video and Photography
VIS 403 - Nonfiction Video Storytelling
or
VIS 423 - Advanced Video Storytelling: How to be a Multimedia Rock Star
Or
TRF 448 - Audio Storytelling
Or
TRF 456 - Sound for Picture
Newhouse Elective (chosen with department advisor)
Or
Design (12 credits)
Students must have completed VIS 207.

VIS 317 - Typographic Design
VIS 327 - Type and Image Design
VIS 337 - Motion Graphics for Production
Or
VIS 447 - Motion Design
Newhouse Elective (chosen with department advisor)
Or
Multimedia (12 credits)
Personalized combination developed through advising. Students must adhere to prerequisites of courses.

Additional Information
To declare a minor, students must file a declaration form indicating the specific courses selected. The form must be approved by Brad Statler, Academic Advisor (316 Newhouse 3) and by the student’s home college.
Total: 18 Newhouse credits required

