Physical Education, BS (NOT ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS)
*Note: The School of Education is not currently accepting applications for the Physical Education program.
Contact:
For Intra-University Transfers:
School of Education, Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly, Suite 230, 315-443-9319, soeadvising@syr.edu
Ja Youn Kwon, 212 Women’s Building, jkwon02@syr.edu
Syracuse University’s nationally accredited Bachelor of Science (B.S.) degree in Physical Education meets the academic requirements for New York State initial certification for all grades, and teacher certification in states with reciprocal agreements. The New York Physical Education certification also qualifies teacher candidates to coach any sport (7-12) in any school in the state of New York.
The degree program emphasizes teaching methods that encourage all children to embrace a physically active lifestyle with a focus on urban and inclusive settings. The unique location of Syracuse University and the diversity of the surrounding community provide numerous authentic field experiences in urban and suburban settings alike starting in the first year. The School of Education affords its teacher candidates the advantages of resources found only at a major research university, and are enhanced with a strong liberal arts core.  Our small class sizes allow teacher candidates to develop strong, personal relationships with their professors, advisors, and peers.
Teacher candidates spend a minimum of 25 hours in the public schools each academic year, culminating with a full-time student teaching semester during which student teachers develop and teach several units of instruction and become involved with the school community. At a minimum, the B.S. in Physical Education can be earned with the satisfactory completion of 120 credits.
The B.S. in Physical Education requires teacher candidates to attain a 3.0 GPA prior to senior year student teaching. Student teaching requirements also include successful completion of the Child Health and Life Safety Seminar and CPR/AED and First Aid certifications.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Acquire knowledge of each student, and demonstrate knowledge of student development and learning to promote achievement for all students
2. Know the content they are responsible for teaching, and plan instruction that ensures growth and achievement for all students
3. Implement instruction that engages and challenges all students to meet or exceed the learning standards
4. Work with all students to create a dynamic learning environment that supports achievement and growth
5. Use multiple measures to assess and document student growth, evaluate instructional effectiveness, and modify instruction
6. Demonstrate professional responsibility and engage relevant stakeholders to maximize student growth, development, and learning
7. Set informed goals and strive for continuous professional growth
8. Demonstrate appropriate professional dispositions
Program Requirements
Liberal Arts Requirements
MAT 121 - Probability and Statistics for the Liberal Arts I or
MAT 221 - Elementary Probability and Statistics I
 WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior
 CRS 225 - Public Advocacy or
CRS 325 - Presentational Speaking
 Humanities Elective (any) (3 credits)
Humanities Elective (PHI, REL or LIT only) (3 credits)
History (3 credits)
Arts & Sciences elective (any) (9 credits)
Foreign Language
One course (minimum 3 credits) in a language other than English (including American Sign Language), or equivalent competency established by examination or level three of high school study. If Language requirement has been met, a 3-credit liberal arts elective must be taken in its place.
Natural Sciences Requirements
BIO 121 - General Biology I
NSD 225 - Nutrition in Health
Professional Courses
Professional Physical Education
PPE 177 - Introduction to Health and Physical Education
PPE 235 - Teaching K-12 Health-Related Fitness
EXE 195 - Introduction to Exercise Science
PPE 381 - Physical Education in the Elementary Schools
PPE 383 - Physical Education in the Secondary School
EXE 282 - Motor Behavior Across the Lifespan
PPE 394 - Assessment and Curriculum in Health and Physical Education
PPE 395 - Structural Kinesiology
EXE 408 - Analysis of Human Motion
PPE 415 - Physical Education Teacher Development
PPE 481 - Adapted Physical Education
Professional Education
EDU 204 - Principles of Learning in Inclusive Classrooms
EDU 304 - Study of Teaching
EDU 508 - Student Teaching
RED 326 - Literacy Across the Curriculum
SPE 311 - Perspectives on Disabilities
   CFE 444 - Schooling & Diversity or
WGS 444 - Schooling & Diversity or
EDU 310 - The American School
   EDU 366 - Safe and Healthy Learning Environments (or equivalent) Requirement must be successfully completed before the student teaching semester
Technology (Choose 3 Credits)
IDE 201 - Integrating Technology into Instruction I
IDE 301 - Integrating Technology into Instruction II
IDE 401 - Integrating Technology into Instruction III
Activity Courses (10 credits total)
Required Activity Courses:
PED 240 - Individual/Dual Sports
PED 250 - Team Sports
PED 209 - Adventure Activities I
3 credits of PED activity electives (choose three in consultation with your advisor)
Aquatics (choose 2 credits)
PED 216 - Water Safety Instruction
PED 217 - Lifeguarding
Note: recommend WSI certification prior to student teaching
Dance/Aesthetics (Choose one)
DAP 231 - Introduction to Dance
DAP 228 - Basic Social Ballroom Dance
DAP 233 - African Dance
Open Elective (Any course - 3 credits)
Additional Notes
*CPR/AED/FA certification must be valid during student teaching
*WSI certification recommended prior to student teaching

