Physical Education (Coaching) Minor
Dr. Michael L. Norris, mlnorris@syr.edu, 315-443-9776; 820 Comstock Ave/204F Women’s Bldg.
The coaching minor is designed for students who wish to coach in secondary schools (grades 7-12). Coursework extends beyond the 8 credits required for the New York State Temporary Coaching License. Prerequisite: 2.5 grade point average.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Know a basic philosophy and principle of coaching
2. Know state, local, and national regulations and policies related to athletics; legal considerations; function and organization of leagues and athletic associations in New York State
3. Know selected principles of biology, anatomy, physiology, and kinesiology related to coaching; risk minimization; mixed competition; NYSED selection and classification of athletes; age and maturity of athletes
4. Completion and journaling of ten coaching practicum hours
5. Provide a narrative and oral presentation of coaching practicum experience by writing a reflective paper on the dimensions of the internship experience and compare to discussion and topics developed in class
Program Requirements
Required Courses (8 Credits)
PPE 325 - The Philosophy, Principles and Organization of Athletics in Education
PPE 326 - Theory and Techniques of Coaching
PPE 327 - Health Sciences Applied to Coaching
Select 10 Additional Credits from Any of the Following
EXE 417 - Prevention and Care of Athletic Injuries
NSD 225 - Nutrition in Health
EXE 335 - First Aid (1 credit)
EXE 336 - Cardiopulmonary Rescue (1 credit)
EXE 282 - Motor Behavior Across the Lifespan
EXE 435 - Introduction to Sports Psychology
EXE 436 - Scientific Principles of Conditioning
Total Credits: 18
Note:
EDU 366  (formerly EDU 400) Safe and Healthy Learning Environments (1 credit), or equivalent, which includes the following topics:  Identifying/reporting child abuse, violence prevention, child abduction prevention, highway/general safety, alcohol/drug/tobacco prevention, fire and arson prevention, and training related to the Dignity for All Students (DASA) Act is not required for the minor. However, this course is a requirement for the New York State Coaching Certification.
Fingerprinting is also required for appointment to coaching positions.

