Policy Studies, BPS
Contact:
Associate Dean: 
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Administrative Director:
Maria C. Borte, Academic Program Administrator,
College of Professional Studies, mcborte@syr.edu
  Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Description:
The Bachelor of Professional Studies (BPS) in Policy Studies examines how decisions are made and how they affect government policies-at the international, federal, state, and local levels, as well as in private business and nonprofit organizations. 
Student Learning Outcomes
Apply problem-solving techniques to ameliorate societal problems.
Describe how public policy is implemented.
Collect information in a variety of ways.
Analyze quantitative data for use in decision making.
Communicate effectively in verbal and written modes.
Demonstrate ability to work effectively on team projects.
Liberal Studies Core (30-33 credits)
The Liberal Studies Core gives a foundation in writing, language or quantitative skills, humanities, social science, natural science, and critical reflections. It draws upon lower-division courses in the College of Arts and Sciences.
Writing (6 credits)
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Quantitative Skills (Choose 6-8 credits)
Complete Quantitative Skills Sequence Requirement outlined in the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Humanities (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Humanities Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Social Science (Choose 6 credits)
Any course listed in the Social Sciences Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Natural Science (Choose 3-4 credits)
Any course listed in the Natural Sciences Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Critical Reflections on Ethical & Social Issues (Choose 3 Credits)
Any course listed in the Critical Reflections on Ethical & Social Issues Division of the Liberal Arts Core Guidebook.
Professional Competencies Core (30 credits)
The Professional Competencies Core covers fundamental knowledge and abilities required in the modern workplace, such as ethics and critical thinking, problem solving, human relations, diversity and change management, budgeting and resource management, and teamwork. The Professional Competencies Core includes an introductory course, and a capstone experience required of all B.P.S. students. Designed to draw together issues from across the entire B.P.S. program, these courses summarize concepts covered in the curriculum and develop students’ skills in strategic decision-making that looks to the future.
Required Courses: (9 credits)
BPS 211 - Introduction to Professional Studies
BPS 411 - Senior Seminar
BPS 144 - Orange Immersion
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
Choose 7 Courses (21 Credits) from list below:
BPS 303 - Introduction to Change Management
BPS 315 - Practical Financial Management for the Working Professional
BPS 317 - Assertiveness in the Workplace for Professional Studies
BPS 321 - Rhetorical Awareness and the Diverse Workplace
BPS 325 - Creative and Design Thinking for Professional Studies
CRL 342 - Customer Relations Leadership
BPS 382 - Leading Cooperative Negotiations
LGL 403 - Business Organizations
CRL 472 - Organizational Leadership
CRL 311 - Professional Issues in Creative Leadership
CRL 313 - Strategic Leadership in Professional Studies
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
PPM 325 - Project Communications and Stakeholder Management
Major Requirements (30 credits)
Core Courses (24 credits)
PST 101 - An Introduction to the Analysis of Public Policy
PSC 121 - American National Government and Politics
PSC 202 - Introduction to Political Analysis
ECN 101 - Introductory Microeconomics
SOC 102 - Social Problems
PST 315 - Methods of Public Policy Analysis and Presentation
PST 367 - Smart Cities and Urban Policy
PST 410 - Practicum in Public Policy
Major Electives (6 Credits)
Credits may be from any Upper Division Maxwell course or from the following list. 
(NOTE: cannot be a duplicate class taken in the Professional Competencies Core)
BPS 303 - Introduction to Change Management
BPS 315 - Practical Financial Management for the Working Professional
BPS 317 - Assertiveness in the Workplace for Professional Studies
CRL 319 - Global Leadership
BPS 321 - Rhetorical Awareness and the Diverse Workplace
BPS 325 - Creative and Design Thinking for Professional Studies
BPS 335 - Conflict in Business and Management for Professional Studies
CRL 342 - Customer Relations Leadership
BPS 382 - Leading Cooperative Negotiations
LGL 403 - Business Organizations
BPS 415 - Digital and Business Communications for Professional Studies
CRL 472 - Organizational Leadership
CRL 301 - Introduction to Creative Leadership
CRL 311 - Professional Issues in Creative Leadership
CRL 313 - Strategic Leadership in Professional Studies
CYB 233 - Introduction to Computer Networking for Professional Studies
CYB 323 - Introduction to Information Security for Professional Studies
KNM 301 - Introduction to Knowledge Management
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
Electives (27-30 credits)
Note:
The degree is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.
Note:
The degree is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

