Project Management Minor
Contact
Associate Dean 
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Administrative Director
Charlotte Stahrr, Academic Program Administrator
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
  Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Program Description
The minor in Project Management is interdisciplinary and designed to help students explore foundations, organization, leadership, methodologies, controls, communications, and stakeholder management of Project Management. The minor is administered by The College of Professional Studies and is open to all Syracuse University undergraduate students in good standing.
To Declare a College of Professional Studies Minor
Check with your home school or college to make sure you have room in your program for the required 18 credits of coursework and that you are in good academic standing.
Map out the minor with your academic advisor to ensure you have room within your schedule to complete these 18 credits prior to your anticipated graduation date.
Complete the Declaration of Minor form and return it via email to profstudiesminors@syr.edu
The minor coordinator will sign and return the form to you.
Take the signed form to your home school or college for processing. 
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Define traditional and emerging project management trends and methods;
2. Apply project management concepts to successfully launch and complete a project;
3. Demonstrate an understanding of the concepts connected to globalization as it relates to the project management of large scale team-based projects.
Requirements
Required Courses (18 Credits)
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
PPM 310 - Project Organization and Leadership
PPM 315 - Project Management Methodologies
PPM 320 - Project Controls
PPM 325 - Project Communications and Stakeholder Management
PPM 411 - Project Management Capstone
The minor is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

