Psychology Minor
Interim Chair:
Lael J. Schooler, Ph.D.
430 Huntington Hall
315-443-2354
psychology@syr.edu
Faculty:
Kevin Antshel, Sara E. Burke, Catherine A. Cornwell, Daniel Corral, Amy H. Criss, Joseph W. Ditre, Tanya L. Eckert, Les A. Gellis, Brett K. Jakubiak, Jessie Joyce, Michael L. Kalish, Afton Kapuscinski, David Kellen, Katie Kidwell, Lynn Lohnas, Laura E. Machia, Meredith Martin, Leonard S. Newman, Jeewon Oh, Aesoon Park, Natalie Russo, Jillian R. Scheer, Lael J. Schooler, Bradley Seymour, Linda Sun, Shannon M. Sweeney, Peter A. Vanable, Zahra Vahedi, Sarah Woolf-King, Michelle Zaso, and Jeffrey C. Zemla. 
Description:
Psychology is the scientific study of behavior.  It is behind everything we do.  Explore the human mind.  Understand how people interact with each other and what drives behavior.  Learn more about the human experience and make lives better. 
The minor in psychology provides those students majoring in another discipline with a breadth or depth of experience in psychology to complement their major
Requirements
The minor in psychology provides those students majoring in another discipline with a breadth or depth of experience in psychology to complement their major. For the minor, a total of 18 credits in psychology (PSY) including PSY 205, and 12 credits numbered 300 or above, must be completed. No more than 3 credits of experience credit (PSY 270 or PSY 470), independent study (PSY 290 or PSY 490), or Research in (PSY 291, PSY 292, PSY 293, PSY 294, PSY 491, PSY 492, PSY 493, or PSY 494) may be counted in the minimal credit hours for the minor in psychology.
Courses taken with the pass/fail/audit option may not be applied toward the minor. 
Petition
Students interested in taking a psychology class at another institution and transferring it to Syracuse University to count toward either the major or minor should discuss the process with his/her academic advisor.  An electronic petition form must be completed.  Be sure to include all identifying information, such as your name and SU ID number, in the appropriate fields.
Note: A limit of 3 hours of transfer credit in Psychology may be applied toward the minor (this includes AP credits).
Prior to enrolling in the course, email the form and a copy of the course syllabus to the psychology department’s inbox at psychology@syr.edu. Petitions may take up to two weeks for review. Winter intersession classes are generally not accepted as transfer credit.
Students should plan their program of study in consultation with their academic advisor in order to ensure timely completion of degree requirements.

