Public Relations, BS
Contact
Moon J. Lee, Chair
318 Newhouse 3, 315-443-9347
Faculty
Anthony D’Angelo, Kelly Gaggin, Kuande Hall, Soo Yeon Hong, Brad Horn, Hua Jiang, Dennis F. Kinsey, Moon J. Lee, Joon Soo Lim, Regina Luttrell, Deanna Pelfrey, Steven Pike, Erica Schneider, Youngji Seo
Public Relations is the management of communication between an organization and its publics. The public relations program provides students with instruction in the principles, processes, skills, and management of public relations programs designed to attain or maintain inter-organizational or social accord. Students learn the basic skills of writing, graphic design, and oral presentation, as well as the managerial functions of planning, research, campaign development, and evaluation. The program prepares students with a solid ethical foundation, an understanding of diversity and multiculturalism, and an understanding of the use of social media for strategic engagement with an organization’s publics. Emphasis on digital communication, social media analytics, and multimedia storytelling is woven throughout the curriculum. This is a 42-credit major. Students majoring in Public Relations must take the following requirements, and they are encouraged to take internships and other specialized courses as electives.
Student Learning Outcomes in Public Relations
In addition to the comprehensive Newhouse School learning outcomes listed in the School’s Educational Mission students in the Public Relations major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcome:
Apply an understanding of management principles related to public relations.
Major Requirements
Required Courses (36 credits)
COM 107 - Communications and Society
COM 117 - Multimedia Storytelling
COM 346 - Race, Gender, and the Media
Or
COM 348 - Beauty and Diversity in Fashion Media
Or
COM 350 - Topics in Media, Diversity and Inclusion
COM 507 - Communications Law for Advertising and Public Relations
PRL 206 - Public Relations Principles & Practice
PRL 214 - Writing for Public Relations: Media and Messaging
PRL 315 - Public Relations Research
PRL 319 - Social Media & Society for Public Relations
PRL 320 - Digital & Social Media Innovation for Public Relations
PRL 345 - The Ethics of Advocacy
PRL 376 - Content Optimization for Public Relations Writing
PRL 424 - Public Relations Management and Leadership
VIS 207 - Introduction to Graphic Design
Newhouse Electives (3 credits)
Public Relations majors required to take three credits of coursework. This can be any combination of Newhouse coursework that equals three credits.
Capstone Requirement (3 credits)
This course includes a requirement to complete an ePortfolio to help with career development and assessment:
PRL 425 - Public Relations Cases & Campaigns
Grammar Competency Requirement
Students must complete a grammar competency as part of their degree requirements. There will be two ways students can satisfy this competency:
First, by passing a grammar competency exam during their first semester on campus. The exam will be given twice - once before the end of the first week of classes and a second time prior to registration the next semester.  A passing grade on the exam will fulfill the competency requirement.
Secondly, by passing COM 101, a 0-credit grammar course which will be mandatory for students who fail the grammar competency exam.  This course can be repeated until a passing grade is earned and the competency is met.
 Students must meet the grammar competency to receive a degree.
Global Experience Requirement
The Global Experience requirement may be fulfilled by studying abroad or taking an approved class. A list of courses that fulfill this requirement can be found in the Newhouse Guide Book. If a student chooses to take a Newhouse class to fulfill this requirement, the additional Newhouse hours will be added to the 122 credits needed for graduation if the student has reached the Newhouse credit maximum.
Total: 42 Newhouse credits required.

