Public Health, BS
Contact
Maureen Thompson, Undergraduate Program Director

444B White Hall
315-443-9815
mlthomps@syr.edu
Description
The Bachelor of Science degree in Public Health (BSPH) prepares students for health-related careers in government, private and non-profit organizations that address health promotion and illness prevention in individuals, families and communities.  Service learning and community engagement are key in this major - beginning freshman year and extending through the senior capstone internship, students are working with community partners to improve health in the Syracuse University and regional community.  The 30-credit public health core provides foundational public health knowledge and skills important for entry level public health practice or post-graduate study.  In addition to the public health core, a 15-credit concentration in Addiction Prevention, Health & Society, Healthcare Management, or Community Health Education provides further career-related training.  Students who complete either the Addiction Prevention concentration or Community Health Education concentration are eligible for initial professional credentialing in corresponding careers.  The public health major also provides a pathway to advanced studies in medicine, dentistry, physician assistant, nursing, occupational therapy, or physical therapy.
Intra-University Transfers
The Public Health, BS accepts transfers into the program on a rolling admissions basis who meet the following criteria:
Students with a cumulative GPA 2.7 or higher, in good academic standing at the university and with interest in public health are considered for transfer to the major. 
Students with cumulative GPAs of 2.5 - 2.69 will be considered based on factors influencing the GPA and grades of B or better earned in public health courses previously completed. 
Students must have completed a minimum of 12 credit hours at Syracuse University.
In order to complete the public health degree requirements within a 4 year plan of study, students must have a minimum of 4 remaining semesters of study.
An appointment must be made with the Undergraduate Program Director to discuss the major and to outline a plan for degree completion.
Transferring from the combined accelerated degree programs (BS/MS or BS/MPH):
Students may transfer from a public health dual degree program to the single degree B.S. in public health program under these conditions:
•The transfer is completed prior to the fall semester of the senior year.
•An appointment is made with the Undergraduate Program Director to outline a plan for degree completion.
To make an appointment, contact Dr. Thompson, the undergraduate program director via email:  mlthomps@syr.edu
Student Learning Outcomes
Public Health Core Learning Outcomes
1. Communicate public health information, in both oral and written forms and through a variety of media, to diverse audiences
2. Locate, use, evaluate, and synthesize public health information
3. Apply basic principles of project implementation
4. Use concepts of population health and models from social and behavioral disciplines to promote health and address health related needs and concerns of groups and communities across the life course
5. Relate biology, health behavior, social determinants, and environmental contexts to human health, disease, and the expression of health disparities
6. Outline the organizational structure, function and delivery modalities for U.S. and global healthcare systems
7. Act according to professional values and ethics in public health practice, research and education
8. Describe how community forces, economic factors, and research shape health practices and policies
Concentration Competencies
Addiction Prevention
State the basic theories and concepts of behavioral neuroscience
Identify protective & risk factors for chemical and behavioral addictions in individuals and communities
Apply basic principles of addiction prevention education
Community Health Education
Assess community level needs for health education
Propose health education strategies
Identify factors that influence health behavior
Health and Society
Elucidate challenges populations may face in regards to human rights, access to services, financial strain, and social stigma
State the basic theories and concepts of behavioral neuroscience
Describe nutrition-related approaches to promote health
Healthcare Management
Describe concepts of ethics, law, and regulation in the delivery of healthcare
Explain basic principles of continuous improvement processes within healthcare
Discuss challenges to the efficient and effective delivery of U.S. healthcare
Required Courses - Liberal Arts
Communication Skills (9 credits)
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Communications course from the select list
Quantitative Skills (6-8 credits)
Students must complete 2 semesters of quantitative skills coursework. Students complete a FIRST Course and a different SECOND Course as outlined below:
First Course:
MAT 121 - Probability and Statistics for the Liberal Arts I
MAT 221 - Elementary Probability and Statistics I
Second Course (subject to pre-reqs):
GEO 386 - Quantitative Geographic Analysis
MAT 122 - Probability and Statistics for the Liberal Arts II
MAT 222 - Elementary Probability and Statistics II
MAT 285 - Life Sciences Calculus I
MAT 295 - Calculus I
MAX 201 - Quantitative Methods for the Social Sciences
PSY 252 - Statistical Methods II
Natural Science (10-11 credits)
Required:
NSD 225 - Nutrition in Health
AND
BIO 121 - General Biology I
OR
BIO 123 - General Biology II
OR
BIO 216 - Anatomy & Physiology I
Choose 3-4 additional credits from the following (BIO 121;BIO 123;or BIO 216 may be used either in the required category or as a choice, but cannot count for both)::
ANT 131 - Introduction to Biological Anthropology
BIO 106 - Ocean Life
BIO 121 - General Biology I
BIO 123 - General Biology II
BIO 124 - General Biology II Laboratory
BIO 211 - Introduction to Neuroscience
BIO 216 - Anatomy & Physiology I
BIO 217 - Anatomy and Physiology II
EAR 105 - Earth Science
EAR 106 - Geohazards & Natural Disasters
EAR 110 - Dynamic Earth
EAR 111 - Climate Change Past and Present
EAR 117 - Oceanography
EAR 205 - Water and Our Environment
EAR 210 - History of Earth and Life
EAR 225 - Volcanoes and Earthquakes
GEO 155 - The Natural Environment
GEO 215 - Global Environmental Change
GEO 326 - The Geography of Climate and Weather
PSY 223 - Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience
PSY 323 - Brain and Behavior
Social Science (9 credits)
PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior
6 additional credits of social science courses-see Liberal Arts Core Book
Humanities (9 credits)
See Liberal Arts Core Book
University Requirement
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
In addition to FYS 101, the BSPH requires completion of a 3 credit “IDEA” (Inclusion, Diversity, Equity and Accessibility) course, to be chosen from an approved list and, where possible, to be taken in the first or second year of study.  IDEA courses may be a public health core course, a liberal arts course or a general elective depending on the course chosen.  For a full listing of courses that meet the IDEA course requirement, please visit the undergraduate course catalog.
Program Requirements
Students must complete an approved Global Diversity course and an approved Health Ethics course. Approved course lists for each of these areas is available on the Public Health department web page. These courses may be a humanities, a social science or a general elective depending on the course chosen. The global diversity course requirement can also be met through an academic study abroad experience.  
Public Health Core Requirements (30 credits)
PHP 121 - Personal and Social Health
OR
PHP 219 - Human Health & Disease
Please note that PHP 121 is only accepted for Intra-university transfer students with credit earned prior to declaring the Public Health major.  All other students take PHP 219 Human Health and Disease.  Students cannot receive credit for both courses.
AND
PHP 221 - Community Health Promotion
PHP 223 - Public Health Data & Decision Making
PHP 303 - Environmental Health
PHP 306 - Understanding Health Systems: Macro & Micro Perspectives
PHP 309 - Health Disparities and Underserved Populations
PHP 310 - Promoting Health Through Literacy & Cultural Competence
PHP 401 - Epidemiology
PHP 402 - Implementing and Evaluating Health Programs
PHP 403 - Public Health Policy
Public Health Concentrations (15 credits): Students choose 1 of the following concentrations:
Addiction Prevention Concentration
PHP 318 - Alcohol, Other Drugs, Sex and Gambling: Dynamics of Addiction
PHP 321 - Prevention in Addiction Services
PHP 408 - Addictions in Cultural Context
PHP 436 - Ethics in Addiction Services
PHP 422 - Senior Capstone Internship
Capstone Internship - Students in the Addiction Prevention Concentration must take PHP 422 for 2 credits.
Community Health Education Concentration
(Community Health Education Specialists [CHES] eligible).
PHP 302 - Influencing Healthy Behavior
PHP 304 - Community Health Education
PHP 448 - Global Health Communication and Advocacy
PHP 422 - Senior Capstone Internship
Capstone Internship - Students in the Community Health Concentration must take PHP 422 for 6 credits.
Health and Society Concentration
PHP 422 - Senior Capstone Internship
Capstone Internship - Students in the Health and Society Concentration must take PHP 422 for 3 credits.
Social Justice - choose 1 course (3 credits):
PHP 305 - Community Mental Health
PHP 333 - Disability and Public Health
PHP 437 - LGBTQ Health and Well Being
PHP 438 - Native American Health Promotion
Behavioral Neuroscience - choose 1 course (3 credits):
PHP 318 - Alcohol, Other Drugs, Sex and Gambling: Dynamics of Addiction
PHP 405 - Science and Practice of Mindfulness
Nutrition and Food - choose 1 course (3 credits)
FST 204 - Food, Identity, and Power
FST 307 - Feeding the World: Global Agri-Food Governance
FST 312 - Emergency Food Systems
FST 402 - Feeding the City: Urban Food Systems
FST 403 - The Human Right to Adequate Food and Nutrition
NSD 342 - Nutrition in the Life Span
NSD 343 - Dietary Supplements
NSD 417 - Integrative Food and Nutrition Therapy
NSD 425 - Nutrition for Fitness and Sports
NSD 427 - Public Health Nutrition
NSD 452 - Mediterranean Food and Culture: A Florence Experience
NSD 455 - Community Nutrition
NSD 447 - Weight Management, Obesity and Disordered Eating
Elective - 3 credits - select one course from the following or any course not completed in the required course options for this concentration.
PHP 301 - Holistic Healing Practices
PHP 302 - Influencing Healthy Behavior
PHP 382 - Health in the Middle East
PHP 462 - Culture and Reproductive Health and Medicine
PHP 463 - Global Health
Healthcare Management Concentration
PHP 312 - Introduction to Healthcare Management
PHP 313 - Issues and Challenges: U.S. Healthcare Delivery
PHP 413 - Introduction to Healthcare Quality Improvement
PHP 414 - Introduction to Ethics & Laws in Healthcare Administration
PHP 422 - Senior Capstone Internship
Capstone Internship - Students in the Healthcare Management Concentration must take PHP 422 for 3 credits.
Total Credits: 123
Degree Awarded: Bachelor of Science

