Retail Management, BS
Contact:
Office of Undergraduate Programs, 215 Whitman School of Management, 315-443-2361
Faculty
Linda M. Cushman, Raymond M. Wimer
Today’s global marketplace demands skilled managers and leaders. The retail management program in the Whitman School prepares students for careers as buyers, store managers, apparel product developers, and sales and marketing representatives. The retail management faculty is committed to becoming an internationally recognized leader in providing the marketplace with well-educated, highly effective executives, advocates, and entrepreneurs. This major offers a student-centered approach to learning in partnership with national and international corporations and organizations. Through experienced faculty and visiting industry professionals, the program provides the basis of theoretical and practical knowledge that students need to succeed in the competitive and ever-changing environment.
Students in our programs participate in a wide variety of coursework and activities that prepare them for success in the field. Among the many opportunities are the college’s Martin and Phyllis Berman Lecture Series, which brings prominent CEOs and entrepreneurs to campus to meet and address the student body, and a variety of supervised field trips that enable students to explore the current business environment. Students are encouraged to spend a semester abroad in one of our many Syracuse University centers, which also offer appropriate coursework for the discipline.
Student Learning Outcomes
In addition to the comprehensive learning outcomes listed in the Whitman School’s Undergraduate Education description, students in this major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcomes:
1. Explain how the key components of retail strategy influence business profit
2. Analyze the relationship of the key factors affecting profit
3. Analyze innovative trends in the U.S. culture and how they relate to the retail industry
4. Employ business communication (handling objections/building rapport) and selling strategies (customer and competitor research/customer benefit analysis) utilized in the retail industry
Major Requirements
Sophomore Year
RMT 301 - Retailing Fundamentals
Junior and Senior Year
RMT 333 - Professional Practice
RMT 307 - Sales and Strategic Partnerships
RMT 407 - Retail Buying and Planning
RMT 475 - Supervised Internship
Major elective (3)
Business elective (3)
Major elective may be chosen from the following:
RMT 314 - Product Development for Retail Management
RMT 357 - Visual Merchandising and Store Planning
RMT 457 - Electronic Retailing and Marketing

