Sport Analytics, BS
Contact
Francesco Riverso, Program Manager, Sport Analytics
300 MacNaughton Hall
315-443-5670
friverso@syr.edu
Description
The Bachelor of Science in Sport Analytics is a 125-credit hour undergraduate program designed to provide students with the educational knowledge, skill development, research skills and experiential sport industry background to excel in the specialized field of sport analytics. Instruction centers around core curriculum content areas including research methodology, organizational theory, management theory, technology, sport economics, database management, finance, and computer programming integral to sport analytics. The goal is to prepare graduates to be able to not only think conceptually and analytically but also to be able to apply principles to real issues within sport organizations.

The degree provides students with a unique skill set that can be utilized in all aspects of the sport industry including player talent evaluation, sales, scouting, marketing, sponsorship, ticketing, finance, and accounting for professional, collegiate, and amateur sport organizations.
Intra University Transfers
Deadlines to apply:  November 1st for Spring entry; March 1st for Fall entry.
  The following criteria must be met and will be adhered to by the Sport Management Department IUT analytics faculty subcommittee:
1. A student must have a minimum cumulative GPA of 3.5.
2. In order to complete the requirements of the sport analytics degree within a four-year plan of study; students must have a minimum of five remaining semesters of study.
3. Completed or be in the process of reaching a minimum of 24 hours of courses at SU when applying.
4. Completed the following courses: SPM 205; MAT 221, MAT 295, ECN 101 and either ECN 102 or ECN 203 (included in the 24 credit hours required).
5. Completed at least 6 credits of foreign language coursework. (included in the 24 credit hours required).
Materials to be submitted:
SPM Analytics intra-university transfer application
Three-page (typed) plan that includes the following:
Reason for pursuing this degree
Specific areas of interest in sport analytics
Proposed research interests as it relates to the senior thesis requirement
Sport related experience (volunteer, internship, experiential, and/or community service work)
   2. Current resume, including prior sport industry and/or analytical experience.
A personal interview with the Sport Analytics transfer committee will be arranged for only qualified students based on the qualifications listed above. 
  While careful consideration will be given to all students who meet the qualifications outlined above, acceptance into the Sport Analytics undergraduate program is based on space available and current program enrollment.
Student Learning Outcomes
The key learning outcomes are based upon developing skills in mathematics, computer programming and software, databases, economics, communication, and sports data.  Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
1. Explain, discuss, and analyze core principles and concepts of sport management.
2. Compile and organize data from sports teams, leagues, and related businesses.
3. Interpret data from the sport industry and identify patterns via statistical analysis, visualization, and data mining.
4. Develop computer programming skills to be able to extract, scrape, manage, and parse data for use in statistical analyses.
5. Interpret data to make recommendations for business decisions within sport organizations.
6. Communicate sport analytics concepts in writing and orally, clearly, and concisely. 
Program Requirements
Communication Skills (9 credits)
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
CRS 325 - Presentational Speaking
Quantitative Skills (14-15 credits)
MAT 221 - Elementary Probability and Statistics I
MAT 295 - Calculus I
MAT 296 - Calculus II
MAT Elective - Choose one of the following:
MAT 222 - Elementary Probability and Statistics II
MAT 331 - First Course in Linear Algebra
MAT 397 - Calculus III
Natural Science (7 credits)
Natural Science - must include a lab (4 credits)
Natural Science elective (3 credits)
Liberal Arts (9-12 credits)
Social Science Division (12 credits)
ECN 101 - Introductory Microeconomics
ECN 102 - Introductory Macroeconomics
ECN 311 - Intermediate Mathematical Microeconomics
ECN 421 - Game Theory and Economic Strategy
Foreign Language/Humanities (9-12 credits)
Students satisfy the foreign language requirement for the Sport Analytics program by demonstrating that they have achieved a certain level of competence in a language other than English by either:







1. Completing a 4-credit language course numbered 201, or a 3- or 4-credit language course numbered 202 or higher; or







2. Demonstrating Competence - Students who successfully complete an approved examination testing aural, reading, and composition skills meet the requirement. Petitions for an examination should be submitted to the specific language coordinator; or







3. International Students - Students whose native language is not English may petition to have the language requirement fulfilled by their knowledge of their natural language.







Beginners can complete the language requirement with a sequence of three 4-credit courses numbered 101, 102, and 201. Each of these courses includes four hours of class and two hours of independent laboratory work in a computer or audio/visual cluster weekly.







Note: Students who fulfill the foreign language requirement by petition or test into, and complete, a 3 or 4 credit language course numbered 201 or higher, will take additional Humanities courses to constitute the necessary credits to have fulfilled 63 liberal arts credits.
University Requirement
In addition to FYS 101, the BS in Sport Analytics requires completion of an IDEA course (chosen from a select list) - The IDEA course may count as a liberal arts, departmental course, or elective depending on the course chosen. Please see the undergraduate course catalog for a full listing of IDEA courses.
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
General Skills (6 credits)
ACC 201 - Essentials of Accounting
FIN 301 - Essentials of Finance
Required Courses (37 credits)
SPM 201 - Professional Development in Sport Management
SPM 205 - Principles and Contemporary Issues in Sport Management
SAL 213 - Sport Data Analysis I
SAL 284 - Introduction to Python for Sport Analytics
OR IST 256 Application Programming for Information Systems (3 credits)
SAL 295 - Research Methodology for Sport Analytics
SAL 313 - Sport Data Analysis II
SAL 323 - Database and Programming for Sport Analytics
OR IST 359 Introduction to Database Management Systems (3 credits)
SAL 384 - Advanced Python for Sport Analytics
SPM 365 - Sport Economics
SAL 366 - Sport Economics II
SAL 413 - R for Sport Analytics
SAL 495 - Sport Analytics Thesis Seminar I
SAL 496 - Sport Analytics Thesis Seminar II
Sport Management Degree Requirements:
A student must choose to complete a minor as part of the degree requirements.
Electives:
Electives may be taken in any school or college within the University to reach the required 125 credits, assuming the 63 credits in Liberal Arts and Science is fulfilled.







No more than four credits may be in physical education and no more than six experience credits accepted towards degree.
Senior Thesis:
A 2-semester senior thesis is required.
Total Credits: 125
Study Abroad
The College, in cooperation with Syracuse University Abroad (SU Abroad), strongly encourages students to take advantage of the opportunity to study abroad. Study abroad options include semester, summer, and short-stay programs.
SU Abroad offers students the opportunity to participate in a program of study abroad in Santiago, Chile; London, England; Madrid, Spain; Strasbourg, France; Florence, Italy; Hong Kong, China; or Beijing, China. Syracuse University also builds strong overseas affiliations and partnerships, allowing students to be placed directly at other centers and universities.
No prior knowledge of a foreign language is required, except for the Chile program, and students may choose from a variety of courses to fulfill requirements or elective credits for their program of study in the College. It is essential that students begin planning early for study abroad and work closely with their academic advisors.


For further information, contact the Program Manager, Francesco Riverso, friverso@syr.edu, 315-443-5670, 300 MacNaughton Hall or Syracuse University Study Abroad, 106 Walnut Place, 315-443-3471.

