Studio Arts, BFA
Contact
Joanna Spitzner, Program Coordinator

131 Comstock Art Facility, 315-443-3700, jspitzne@syr.edu
Faculty
Deborah Dohne, Susan D’Amato, Juan Juarez, Chris Wildrick, Joanna Spitzner, Yvonne Buchanan, Errol Willett, Peter Beasecker, Margie Hughto, Holly Greenberg, Dusty Herbig, Jude Lewis, Sam Van Aken, Robert Wysocki, Ann Clarke, Sarah McCoubrey, Marilyn Koch, Sharif Bey
Description
The BFA in Studio Arts is the degree for the professional artist. Focusing on the practice and production of contemporary art, this degree affords the student the opportunity to pursue Intensives in traditional modes of art making such as Ceramics, Drawing, Painting, Sculpture, Printmaking, Jewelry and Metalsmithing while exploring more contemporary approaches such as, Installation, Performance Art, Public, and Social Practices. Offering a single degree, students have the opportunity to choose to focus within one of the traditional media or pursue an interdisciplinary practice that incorporates various mediums, methods, and approaches guided by mentorship and extensive advising. With a focus on professional practices emphasizing skills, conceptual understanding, critical reflection and abilities to develop and maintain a sustainable artistic practice, this degree aims to build on the School’s rich legacy of educating the innovative artists and cultural practitioners of the future.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Develop a coherent art practice that demonstrates a thorough understanding of the materials, processes, and concepts relevant to your work.
2. Apply creative thinking skills to develop and solve problems within your work. 
3. Use research skills to develop and articulate an understanding of contemporary art, art history, and visual culture, as they relate to your art practice. 
4. Demonstrate critical thinking and communication skills to meaningfully critique both your own and others’ work.
Program Requirements
MAJOR REQUIREMENTS (44 Credits)
AIC 101 Arts in Context I
AIC 102 Arts in Context II
ARI 101 - First-year Studio I
ARI 102 - First-year Studio II
Six 1-credit ARL workshops, selected from a list offered in the fall and spring of the student’s first year (3 workshops in the fall, 3 in the spring).
ARI 201 - Second-year Studio I
ARI 202 - Second-year Studio II
ARI 301 - Third-year Studio I
ARI 302 - Third-year Studio II

ARI 497 - Art Practices: Capstone 1

ARI 498 - Art Practices: Capstone II

ARL 150 - Woodshop Art Lab I
ARL 131- Observational Drawing Workshop
AIC 101 - Arts in Context I
AIC 102 - Arts in Context II
AIC 340 - Visiting Artist Lecture Series
ARI 101 - First-year Studio I
ARI 102 - First-year Studio II
ARL 131 - Observational Drawing Workshop
ART INTENSIVE REQUIREMENTS (18 credits)
Through the art intensives, students have the opportunity to choose to focus within one of the traditional media or pursue an interdisciplinary practice that incorporates various mediums, methods, and approaches guided by mentorship and extensive advising.
ART IN CONTEXT REQUIREMENTS (12 credits)*
Art in Context can be satisfied by courses related to art and design history, theory and philosophy.
*The required 12 credits should consist of 9 Liberal Arts & Sciences credits.
AIC 340 - Visiting Artist Lecture Series
(3x, 1 credit each)
ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS (6 credits)
WRT 105  Writing Studio 1
WRT 205  Writing Studio 2
Liberal Arts & Sciences Electives (15 credits)/Academic Electives (11 credits)*
Academic electives are most courses offered outside of art, design, or transmedia (for example, courses offered in CRS, Arts and Sciences, Whitman, and other colleges outside of VPA). These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, and entrepreneurship, and languages, among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here.
*The required 26 credits should consist of Liberal Arts & Sciences (15 credits), and Academic Electives (11 credits)
STUDIO ELECTIVES (15 credits)
Studio electives are courses usually offered in VPA through art, design, or transmedia.  The content of the courses directly relates to the preparation of students for professional careers in art, design, and transmedia. The course content includes, but is not limited to, conceptualization, process, product, and critique of creative work in studio practice. These courses meet for a much longer time, for a minimum of four hours per week for the duration of the semester. Usual meeting patterns are: the class meets once per week for four+ hours, or the class meets twice per week, usually for two or more hours each. You can find a comprehensive list of courses that count as studio electives here.
MINIMUM # OF CREDITS FOR GRADUATION 122

