Supply Chain Management, BS
Contact:
Office of Undergraduate Programs, 215 Whitman School of Management, 315-443-2361
Faculty
Karca Aral, Burak Kazaz, Gary LaPoint, Rong Li, Julie Niederhoff, Patrick Penfield, Zhengping Wu, Fasheng Xu
Effective management of supply chain is critical for business success in today’s complex, dynamic and globalized environment. A supply chain is a pipeline of material, information and financial flows, frequently global in scope. It includes not only the organization but also the suppliers, buyers, and others with whom it interacts.
Supply chain management requires a distinctive view of business: procurement, manufacturing, and distribution must be viewed and controlled as a seamless flow. Good supply chain managers eliminate delays, reduce the amount of resources tied up all along the chain, and mitigate potential risks that can disrupt operations. To perform effectively, a company must develop policies to ensure the seamless flow and learn to function with its partners like a single organism.
An understanding of supply chain management is an asset to any manager, and there is a strong demand for specialists who can comprehend and manage the entire chain. Building on long-established strengths, the undergraduate major offers a solid grounding in this exciting field.
Students have the opportunity to take various certification exams such as APICS, AST&L and others.
  Student Learning Outcomes
In addition to the comprehensive learning outcomes listed in the Whitman School’s Undergraduate Education description, students in this major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcomes:
1. Explain the role of supply chain management in the context of business operations
2. Demonstrate how SCM is interrelated with other functional areas of management (e.g., marketing, finance, and information systems)
3. Apply appropriate techniques used to solve supply chain planning problems
4. Apply modeling, optimization, and analyses tools (e.g., Excel, SAP, etc.) in formulating a problem, solving it, and providing managerially insightful prescriptions
5. Analyze “core competency” in business operations by improving supply chain performance
Major Requirements
Junior Year
SCM 401 - Supply Chain and Logistics Management
SCM 411 - Supply Chain Management Systems
SCM 403 - Introduction to Management Science
Senior Year
Major electives (6)
Business elective (3)
Two major electives may be chosen from the following:
SCM 400 - Selected Topics in Supply Chain Management
SCM 431 - Transportation and Distribution Center Management
SCM 432 - Strategic Sourcing
SCM 440 - Green Supply Chain Management
SCM 444 - Wine Analytics
SCM 451 - Supply Chain Finance
SCM 455 - Lean Six Sigma
SCM 456 - Introduction to Project Management
SCM 459 - The Law of Global Business
SCM 477 - Global Supply Chain Management & Risk Mgmt

