Sustainable Food Enterprises Minor (Not Admitting Students)
*Note: Program is no longer admitting students
  Mary Kiernan, Minor Coordinator
522C White Hall
315-443-4563
mpkierna@syr.edu
The 18-19 credit minor in Sustainable Food Enterprises is for students interested in a career in the food industry including creating, marketing and managing events such as conferences and workshops. The minor is designed to provide students with a core set of courses in food safety (ServSafe and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points), restaurant and food service operations, feeding people on a large-scale and operational and policy aspects of the food service industry. The senior-level course on Food Enterprises is designed specifically around the concepts of “impact investing” and “social entrepreneurship” or structuring firm operations to promote positive social outcomes. 
In addition, students may choose from a set of food economies courses focused on labor issues, food enterprises as urban development strategies, establishing and operating emergency feeding systems, and food cooperatives and values-based certification systems (e.g., organic, fair trade, social justice) in the food industry. Finally, students can choose from a set of business courses to acquire skills around marketing, entrepreneurial firms or organizing events of various types.
Admission
The minor is open to all students.  To be admitted to the minor, students must submit a Declaration of Minor form to their academic advisor, the minor coordinator and their home college dean’s office.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Develop knowledge of management skills applicable to the food industry
2. Interpreting understanding of development to promote positive social outcomes
3. Evaluating and applying food studies concepts through entrepreneurial avenues
4. Finding ways demand creates opportunity and how one is able to create demand through values-based approaches
Core Courses - 15 Credits
FST 310 - Will Work for Food: Labor Across the Food Chain
FST 415 - Food Enterprise
NSD 114 - Food Safety and Quality Assurance
NSD 115 - Food Science I
NSD 216 - Food Service Operations
Food Economies and Business System Applications - 3-4 credits
choose 1 course from the following:
EEE 370 - Introduction to Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises
FST 304 - Farm to Fork
FST 306 - Food Cooperatives
FST 309 - Philosophy & Practice of Locavorism
FST 312 - Emergency Food Systems
FST 402 - Feeding the City: Urban Food Systems
MAR 301 - Essentials of Marketing
SPM 305 - Principles of Sport Hospitality Management

