Visual Communications, BS
Contact:
Renée Stevens, Chair
Department of Visual Communications
318 Newhouse 3, 315-443-3367
Faculty
Rafael Concepcion, Seth Gitner, Ken Harper, Gregory Heisler, Paula Nelson, Milton Santiago, Hal Silverman, Michael Snyder, Renée Stevens, Bruce Strong, Claudia Strong, Jason Webb 
The Visual Communications program offers four tracks: Cinematography, Commercial & Advertising Photography, Design, and Editorial Photography & Photojournalism. Students are encouraged to let their passions drive their focus and academic path, and the program is created to support and foster the individuality of its students and their unique voices and vision. Collaboration with students from various programs across departments is highly encouraged. Students also study entrepreneurship, business, communications law and ethics, as well as develop relevant skills in writing, and presentation.
Cinematography
The Cinematography track focuses on lighting, lensing, composition, movement, crew management, color science, and photochemistry. Cinematic storytelling expands beyond motion picture and television production allowing the same skills associated with narrative cinematography to cross pollinate with other forms of visual storytelling such as documentary, branded content, industrial films, commercial advertising, music video, journalism, animation, social media, augmented reality, virtual reality, game design, and livestreaming. 
Commercial & Advertising Photography
The Commercial & Advertising Photography track covers the areas of advertising, commercial, fashion, portraiture, and illustration photography for print and digital publications. Courses cover lighting, concept, editing and sequencing as well as project management, critique and communication using visual language. 
Design
The design track emphasizes problem-solving, storytelling, design thinking, and a human-centered approach to design. This focus allows students to create smart, compelling, innovative solutions in print and pixels, including UI/UX, augmented reality, virtual reality, brand systems, product design, 2D and 3D design, and motion design.
Editorial Photography & Photojournalism
The Editorial Photography & Photojournalism track focuses on documentary storytelling and visual journalism across all genres and focuses on building foundational technical and creative skill sets. Additional courses include lighting; editing and sequencing; project management, building visual narratives; and critique and communication using visual language.
Student Learning Outcomes Photography
In addition to the comprehensive Newhouse School learning outcomes listed in the school’s Educational Mission students in the Visual Communications major are expected to achieve the following learning outcome:
Produce professional quality visual communication by synthesizing the best practices and current theories of traditional still, motion, interactive, and emerging media.
Major Requirements
Visual Communications majors must complete 42 credits within the Newhouse School of Public Communications and other requirements as outlined below.
Newhouse Core (12 credits)
COM 107 - Communications and Society
COM 117 - Multimedia Storytelling
COM 346 - Race, Gender, and the Media
Or
COM 348 - Beauty and Diversity in Fashion Media
Or
COM 350 - Topics in Media, Diversity and Inclusion
COM 505 - Communications Law for Journalists
Or
COM 506 - Communications Law for Television, Radio, Film
Or
COM 507 - Communications Law for Advertising and Public Relations
Or
COM 509 - Communications Law for Public Communicators
Visual Communications Core (12 credits)
JNL 211 - Cross-Media News Writing
Or
TRF 211 - Screenwriting
VIS 201 - Introduction to Photography for Multimedia
Newhouse Elective (3 credits)
(any Newhouse courses, any semester after the first year)
VIS 207 - Introduction to Graphic Design
Tracks (18 credits)
Students will choose one of the tracks listed below.
 Cinematography
CIN 313 - Cinematography I: Fundamentals
CIN 323 - Cinematic Light & Lens
VIS 403 - Nonfiction Video Storytelling
CIN 433 - Cinematography II: Cinematic Storytelling
CIN 483 - Cinematography Capstone
Students choose three credits from the list below (1 credit courses):
CIN 510 - Topics in Cinematography
Topics include:
Cinematic Movement
Emerging Cinematography
Pre-Visualization
TRF 510 - Specialized Practice
Topics include: 
Color Correction
Commercial & Advertising Photography
VIS 301 - Video and Photography
VIS 324 - Light and Concept
VIS 405 - Photographic Storytelling
VIS 434 - Commercial & Advertising Photography and Multimedia
VIS 439 - Advanced Projects
VIS 489 - Photography and Multimedia Capstone
Note:
Visual Communications majors completing the Commercial & Advertising Photography track may also fulfill their capstone requirement with VIS 484 Commercial & Advertising Photo Capstone depending on which course is offered the spring of their senior year.
  VIS 484 - Commercial & Advertising Photo Capstone
Design
VIS 317 - Typographic Design
VIS 327 - Type and Image Design
VIS 447 - Motion Design
VIS 457 - User Interface and User Experience (UI/UX) Design
VIS 467 - Immersive Design
VIS 487 - Graphic Design Capstone
Editorial Photography & Photojournalism
VIS 301 - Video and Photography
VIS 324 - Light and Concept
VIS 405 - Photographic Storytelling
VIS 425 - Visual Editing and Project Development
VIS 439 - Advanced Projects
VIS 489 - Photography and Multimedia Capstone
Note:
Visual Communications majors completing the Editorial Photography & Photojournalism track may also fulfill their capstone requirement with VIS 485 Multimedia and Photojournalism Capstone, depending on which course is offered the spring of their senior year.

VIS 485 - Multimedia and Photojournalism Capstone
Additional Requirements
Global Experience Requirement
The Global Experience requirement may be fulfilled by studying abroad or taking an approved class. A list of courses that fulfill this requirement can be found in the Newhouse Guide Book. If a student chooses to take a Newhouse class to fulfill this requirement, the additional Newhouse hours will be added to the 122 credits needed for graduation if the student has reached the Newhouse credit maximum.
Grammar Competency Requirement
Students must complete a grammar competency as part of their degree requirements. There will be two ways students can satisfy this competency:
First, by passing a grammar competency exam during their first semester on campus. The exam will be given twice - once before the end of the first week of classes and a second time prior to registration the next semester. A passing grade on the exam will fulfill the competency requirement.
Secondly, by passing COM 101, a 0-credit grammar course which will be mandatory for students who fail the grammar competency exam. This course can be repeated until a passing grade is earned and the competency is met.
Students must meet the grammar competency to receive a degree.
Non-Newhouse Course Requirements
EEE 370 - Introduction to Entrepreneurship and Emerging Enterprises (Whitman School of Management)
PHI 293 - Ethics and the Media Professions (College of Arts and Sciences)
Total: 42 Newhouse credits required

