Writing and Rhetoric, BA
Collin Gifford Brooke, Chair of the Department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition
239 H.B. Crouse
315-443-1091
Faculty
Lois Agnew, Patrick W. Berry, Collin Gifford Brooke, Kevin Adonis Browne, Lenny Grant, Alicia Hatcher, Krista Kennedy, Brice Nordquist, Eileen E. Schell, Tony Scott, Joseph Wilson
The Syracuse University Department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition has been a national leader in the field of rhetoric and composition for almost 30 years. Chartered in 1987, the department was at the forefront of a national trend of establishing independent academic units focused entirely on writing research and instruction. Since then, we have maintained our strong focus on introductory writing and professional communication, while expanding our scope to create an innovative curriculum that engages with writing studies at every level.
The department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition is also home to The Writing Center (H.B.Crouse 101; 315-443-5289), a resource for all writers at Syracuse University. See our web site at wrt.syr.edu for more information.
Major in Writing Description
As a Writing and Rhetoric Major, you will explore the power of language across a range of genres in ways that will help you to compose in a rapidly changing world. Our major offers classes that will give you the opportunity to practice digital, argumentative, research, civic, science, professional, and technical writing as well as creative nonfiction. You will also consider culture, ethics, identity and language as they relate to writing in and out of school.
Working in small, student-centered classes taught by attentive, award-winning faculty, you will gain the skills needed for a variety of today’s existing careers as well as the adaptability to succeed in jobs that are just emerging.
Graduates of the Writing and Rhetoric Major have gone on to be successful in a variety of careers including public relations, marketing, public advocacy, editing and publishing, teaching, and business. Some go on to pursue advanced degrees in law, medicine, and the humanities. The major is both rigorous and flexible, allowing students to pursue what they love while deepening their critical thinking, composing, and creative problem-solving skills. The major is open to any SU student, and many find it to be an excellent second major.
The Department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition is home to a highly ranked doctoral program. Our faculty invite students to examine language as embedded in history and culture, from diverse rhetorical traditions to emerging technologies to ethics, investigating the relationships among writing, rhetoric, identity, literacy, and power.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
If you would like to learn more about the Writing and Rhetoric Major, feel free to email us at writing@syr.edu or phone at (315) 443-1091. We can arrange an opportunity for you to meet our faculty or majors and see our dedicated study space.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Produce well-reasoned, well-evidenced arguments
2. Produce texts that exhibit an ethical stance toward topic and audience
3. Produce rhetorically astute work in multiple modalities
4. Produce texts that engage with issues of the interactions of power, identity, culture, and literacy in their rhetorical and social complexity
5. Produce texts that engage the historical and cultural contexts of genres and practices of writing
6. Engage in primary and secondary research and reflect on their research practices and processes
Requirements
To qualify for a B.A. degree in Writing and Rhetoric, students complete a total of 30 credits of coursework. These credits include the required core courses WRT 255, WRT 302, WRT 307, WRT 413, three courses from Genres and Practices, and three courses from Histories and Theories.
Required Core Courses (12 credits)
WRT 255 - Advanced Argumentative Writing
WRT 302 - Advanced Writing Studio: Digital Writing
WRT 307 - Advanced Writing Studio: Professional Writing
WRT 413 - Rhetoric and Ethics
Genres and Practices (9 credits)
(students select 3)
WRT 240 - Writing through Health, Wellness, and Illness
WRT 301 - Advanced Writing Studio: Civic Writing
WRT 303 - Advanced Writing Studio: Research and Writing
WRT 304 - Indigenous Writing and Rhetoric
WRT 308 - Advanced Writing Studio: Style
WRT 331 - Peer Writing Consultant Practicum
WRT 340 - Advanced Editing Studio
WRT 417 - Technical Documentation & Usability
WRT 419 - Advanced Technical Writing Workshop
WRT 422 - Studies in Creative Nonfiction *
WRT 425 - Digital Identities
WRT 427 - Emerging Technologies in Professional & Technical Writing
WRT 470 - Experience Credit (community or business-based internships: http://wrt.syr.edu/undergraduate/internships.html)
Approved Genres and Practices non-WRT courses**:
ENG 401 - Advanced Writing Workshop: Poetry
ENG 403 - Advanced Writing Workshop: Fiction
NEW 205 - News Writing
PRL 214 - Writing for Public Relations: Media and Messaging
Histories and Theories (9 credits)
(students select 3)
WRT 423 - African American Rhetoric
WRT 424 - Studies in Writing, Rhetoric, Identity *
WRT 426 - Studies in Writing, Rhetoric, and Information Technology *
WRT 428 - Studies in Composition, Rhetoric and Literacy *
WRT 436 - Feminist Rhetoric(s)
WRT 437 - Rhetoric and Information Design
WRT 440 - Studies in the Politics of Language and Writing *
WRT 447 - Professional & Technical Writing in Global Contexts
Approved Histories and Theories non-WRT courses**:
CRS 336 - Communication and Organizational Diversity
CRS 338 - Communication in Organizations
CRS 355 - Political Communication
CRS 455 - Rhetorical Criticism
CRS 483 - Rhetoric of Film
ENG 325 - History and Varieties of English
ENG 420 - Topics in Cultural Production and Reception
ENG 440 - Topics in Theorizing History and Culture
Note
*These courses are repeatable.
**At most, a total of two approved non-WRT courses (6 credits) from the above lists can be used toward the major.
Declaring a major
To declare a Writing and Rhetoric Major, students should complete the electronic Declaration of Major form in MySlice.
Distinction in Writing and Rhetoric
Students may earn the award of Distinction in Writing if overall cumulative GPA of 3.4 and a minimum GPA of 3.5 in WRT after taking at least four Writing and Rhetoric major courses to be eligible to enroll in WRT 495 - Senior Research Seminar I  in the fall (one credit) and WRT 496 - Senior Research Seminar II in the spring of their Senior year (two credits) during which students must complete a thesis-length independent research or creative project. 

