Inclusive Elementary and Special Education, BS
Contact:
For Intra-University Transfers:
School of Education, Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly, Suite 230, 315-443-9319, soeadvising@syr.edu
Christine Ashby, Program Coordinator, 315-443-8689 or ceashby@syr.edu
This innovative program is designed to prepare graduates for careers in classrooms (grades 1-6) that serve an increasingly diverse student population. Through this rigorous program, students are offered the opportunity to make a difference in the lives of children through the development of a strong inclusive education philosophy and pedagogy.  In addition to liberal arts distribution courses and depth in a liberal arts area, students take professional courses that integrate within them material on children with both typical and “special” needs who come from diverse cultural backgrounds. Supervised field experiences take place throughout the program at a variety of Syracuse area settings, and include placements in schools that are at the forefront of inclusive education.  There is also an opportunity to student teach for one semester in New York City, through the “Bridge to the City” option.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Acquire knowledge of each student and demonstrate knowledge of student development and learning to promote achievement for all students
2. Know the content they are responsible for teaching and plan instruction that ensures growth and achievement for all students
3. Implement instruction that engages and challenges all students to meet or exceed the learning standards
4. Work with all students to create a dynamic learning environment that supports achievement and growth
5. Use multiple measures to assess and document student growth, evaluate instructional effectiveness, and modify instruction
6. Demonstrate professional responsibility and engage relevant stakeholders to maximize student growth, development, and learning
7. Set informed goals and strive for continuous professional growth
Program Requirements
Program requirements include liberal arts skills and distribution courses, a concentration  of no less than 30 credits in an approved liberal arts and sciences area, and professional coursework. The demands of the program means that greater amount of credits hours than many programs and heavier semester loads are typical.   Total credits are usually between 133 and 145, although the length varies and can be more than 145 credits, depending on the student’s skill background, the chosen liberal arts concentration, and other choices made by the student. In most cases, students enroll for more than 15 credits in a semester and/or take summer courses (at SU or other colleges) to complete the degree within four years. Therefore, prospective students not already enrolled in the School of Education are encouraged to consult with the School of Education as early as possible. Please note that in choosing courses to meet the Liberal Arts requirements, students must keep their choice of liberal arts concentration in mind, including required number of upper division courses, and, whenever possible, choose courses that can also be used toward that concentration.
Liberal Arts Requirements:
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing or
WRT 109 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing (Honors)
 WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing or
WRT 209 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing (Honors)
 MAT 117 - Foundational Mathematics via Problem Solving I
MAT 118 - Foundational Mathematics via Problem Solving II
SCI 104 - Science-Questions and Quests: Physical Phenomena I
SCI 105 - Science-Questions and Quests: Physical Phenomena II
EDU 310 - The American School
CFE 444 - Schooling & Diversity
Foreign Language:
One course (minimum 3 credits) in a language other than English (including American Sign Language), or equivalent competency established by examination or level three of high school study
Distribution courses selected from an approved course list
U.S. History (3 credits)
History II (Diversity within the U.S or Global History) (3 credits)
Geography (3 credits)
Citizenship, Economics, and Government (3 credits)
Global Perspectives (3 credits)
Literature (6 credits)
Other breadth - in History of Art or Music, Philosophy, Religion, Mathematics, or Natural Sciences
Liberal Arts Concentrations Available:
The program requires students to complete a 30-credit liberal arts concentration or major. This liberal arts area must be chosen as early as possible, so that maximum overlap between the liberal arts/general education requirements (see above) and the concentration/major may be achieved.
Human Thought and Expression concentration: study of literature, history, philosophy, religion, gender and ethnic studies, history and the arts, and other humanities;
People, Places and Societies concentration: study of anthropology, sociology, gender and ethnic studies, international relations, economics, geography, history, political science, and other social sciences;
Mathematics
Natural Sciences
A guide to assist in this choice is available from the Department of Teaching and Leadership, 150 Huntington Hall, or the Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, suite 230.
Professional Education Requirements:
EDU 203 - Introduction to Inclusive Schooling
EDU 201 - Practicum in Pre-K Inclusive Education a practicum experience offered under EDU 200, or an alternative appropriate credit-bearing field experience.
EDU 303 - Children’s Learning in ENL Inclusive Classrooms or EDU 300 - Understanding ENL and Other Languages or if the requirement must be taken in the fall semester, EDU 204 - Principles of Learning in Inclusive Classrooms
SPE 311 - Perspectives on Disabilities
CSD 303 - Communication in the Classroom (or, if necessary, CSD 212 Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders)
IDE 201 - Integrating Technology into Instruction I
EDU 366 - Safe and Healthy Learning Environments
Arts in Education (complete 2 credits)
EDU 431 - Art in the Classroom
EDU 432 - Music in the Classroom
EDU 433 - Speech and Drama in the Classroom
Pre-Block and Block reviews of progress
Both this program and the teaching profession are demanding, requiring not only appropriate attitudes about children, and skills in working with them, but also knowledge of the content to be taught, excellent writing skills, critical thinking skills, and much more. Students’ progress is reviewed several times through the program against specific proficiencies and other assessment criteria. Effective for those entering the program Fall 2014 or later, to be eligible for Block I, students must have a 3.0 cumulative GPA; a 3.0 average for and no grade below a B- in EDU 203, EDU 201, SPE 311, and EDU 303 or its alternative; a B- or better grade in each writing course taken; and a B- or better average with no grade below a C in both the two required mathematics courses and the two required natural science courses, with at least one B- grade in each before entering Block I. In addition, they must have satisfactory ratings on the proficiencies and dispositions that are part of the professional courses and field experiences. Reviews also take place to determine eligibility to enter subsequent blocks, and additional information about this is available from the program faculty teaching in the blocks.
Block I
EED 314 - Teaching Strategies for Inclusive Education
EED 325 - Primary Grade Literacy Methods and Curriculum
EED 361 - Block I Field Experience and Seminar
Block II
EED 323 - Primary Grade Mathematics Methods and Curriculum
EED 328 - Block II Field Experience
EED 336 - Elementary Social Studies Methods and Curriculum
EED 362 - Block II Field Seminar
SPE 324 - Differentiation for Inclusive Education
EDU 434 - Creative Movement for the Classroom
IDE 301 - Integrating Technology into Instruction II
Block III
EED 337 - Elementary Science Methods and Curriculum
EED 363 - Block III Field Seminar
EED 423 - Intermediate Grade Mathematics Methods and Curriculum
EED 425 - Intermediate Grade Literacy Methods and Curriculum
EED 438 - Block III Field Experience
IDE 401 - Integrating Technology into Instruction III
Student Teaching Semester
EDU 508 - Student Teaching (12 credits required)
EED 464 - Student Teaching Seminar/Inclusive Education
SPE 434 - Collaborative Teaching for Inclusive Education
A Bridge to the City
A Bridge to the City provides Inclusive Elementary teacher candidates with a student teaching experience in the vibrant urban environment of New York City.  This is a unique opportunity for these students to sharpen their skills and broaden their perspectives on cultures, families, and professional practices.  Students apply for this opportunity during their junior year, and if selected will student teach in NYC during the fall of their senior year.

