Visual Culture Minor
Contact
Rachel Hall, Program Coordinator

114 Sims Hall, 315-443-0792, rchall01@syr.edu
Description
The minor in Visual Culture exploits one of the unique strengths of Syracuse University: a world class arts school in the midst of a research institution. The minor is an interdisciplinary program sponsored by the following units: The School of Art and Design and Communication and Rhetorical Studies. The minor functions as an academically-based minor that is intended to complement the studio-based majors in the College of Visual and Performing Arts and provide non-studio based majors a concentration in visual culture and criticism that is theoretically and historically informed. The minor is open to all Syracuse University undergraduates.
The Visual Culture minor provides students with the critical skills necessary to address the evolving intersection of art, design, and communication in a variety of contexts including the art world, consumer culture, politics, and popular culture. Drawing on the diversity of disciplinary approaches to visual culture, the minor fosters critical engagement with diverse modes of visual expression and communication, from advertising design and image activism to material culture and public sculpture.
The Visual Culture minor equips students with an interdisciplinary conceptual framework that will illuminate (1) the diverse sensory modes (i.e. verbal, aural, tactile, etc.) that inform and interact with visual expression; (2) the various institutional frameworks that shape the production, circulation, and reception of visual culture (from the nineteenth century forward); and (3) the historical and cultural contexts that normalize particular viewing practices and social formations.
By the completion of the minor, students will be adept in interdisciplinary viewing practices, familiar with diverse critical approaches to visual meaning, and an effective in communicating complex visual ideas.
The Visual Culture minor should be of interest to students who seek a program that focuses on visual culture as the nexus of creative practice, advocacy, and criticism
Admission
Visual Culture Minor Application
Transcript of your Syracuse University courses

Applications accepted at any time, but will adhere to October 15 deadline for processing and approval in the fall semester and March 1st for spring semester.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Analyze and critique visual culture
2. Describe and evaluate theories of visual culture
3. Engage with histories of visual culture
4. Recognize, analyze, and critique systems of power as manifest in visualization techniques and practices of looking
5. Engage in making, adapting, or recontextualizing some aspect of visual culture
Minor Requirements
Required Course: 3 credits
AIC 316 - Introduction to Visual Culture
or
CRS 316 - Introduction to Visual Culture or
FMA 316 - Introduction to Visual Culture
Electives: 15 credits
Required Electives:  9 credits
Modern Art Media*  3 credits
Design History and Material Culture*  3 credits
Art History, Theory and Criticism*  3 credits
VPA ELECTIVES**  6 credits
* Students are required to take one course from each of the three elective tracks. The three selected courses must have different prefixes. For example, students can NOT take ART 250, ART 201, and ART 310.
**Students may select any CVPA courses (above the 100-level) or may petition to have courses taken outside VPA (above the 100-level) count toward the minor.
Modern Art Media Track
Choose ONE from the following:
APH 561 - Art Photography: Contemporary Art and Photography
APH 562 - Art Photography: Contemporary Critical & Theoretical Texts on Art & Photography
FIL 250 - Topics in Film History & Culture
FIL 253 - Survey of Film History 1
CRS 483 - Rhetoric of Film
FIL 226 - Survey of Film Theory
FIL 360 - Topics in Film Culture
VID 510 - Video Art History
Design History and Material Culture Track
Choose ONE from the following:
AIC 392 - Cosplay
DES 314 - History of the Bauhaus: Studies in Material Culture
DES 431 - Art Nouveau Design and Architecture: Studies in Material Culture
DES 114 - Design, Cultural Traditions and the Environment
DRD 321 - Theatrical Costume Design I
FAS 335 - History of Fashion Design I: Origins and Revivals
FAS 336 - History of Fashion Design II: Contemporary Trends
MUS 503 - Introduction to Museum Studies
ILL 301 - History of Comics
Art History, Theory, and Criticism Track
Choose ONE from the following:
AIC 321 - Art, Activism, Modernity
AIC 423 - Artists Who Write
AIC 495 - Archive as Art
APH 561 - Art Photography: Contemporary Art and Photography
APH 562 - Art Photography: Contemporary Critical & Theoretical Texts on Art & Photography
MUS 405 - Print Curatorship
 *Prerequisites waived for declared Visual Culture minors.
Total Credits Required: 18

