Broadcast and Digital Journalism, BS
Contact:
Anthony Adornato, Chair
318 Newhouse 3, 315-443-4118
Faculty
Keonte Coleman, Dona Hayes, Keren Henderson, Jamie Hoskins, Nausheen Husain, Beverly Kirk, J. Elliott Lewis, Mark Lodato, Edecio Martinez, Jim Osman, Hanayo Oya, Les Rose, Olivia Stomski, Chris Tuohey, Randy Wenner
Students in the broadcast and digital journalism program learn writing, information gathering and reporting, videography, editing, anchoring, and producing for both traditional and digital media platforms. Students also study critical issues (including ethical dilemmas) faced in today’s complex communications environment. “Hands-on” experience is emphasized in the broadcast and digital journalism curriculum.  Newscast production takes place in our state-of-the-art combined newsroom and HD studio.  The newsroom space includes 27 workstations equipped with ENPS© (a widely used news production system), Adobe Premiere Pro © for video editing and Ross XPression © for graphic creation. The studio portion features fully robotic cameras, a video wall, a touchscreen powered by StoryTeller® software, an anchor desk and interview area.  The adjacent control room is fully automated with Ross Overdrive © technology.  Student journalists are also able to report live from the scene of news stories using Dejero © portable equipment.  
Majors are encouraged to take advantage of University-sponsored internships at broadcast and digital journalism organizations (both local and network) across the country. 
Additionally, students have the opportunity to do extracurricular work at campus radio and television stations and other media outlets.
Student Learning Outcomes in Broadcast and Digital Journalism
In addition to the comprehensive Newhouse School learning outcomes listed in the School’s Educational Mission, students in the Broadcast and Digital Journalism major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcome:
Effectively communicate ideas and information vocally, applying professional live reporting techniques that employ appropriate technologies.
Major Requirements
This is a 42-credit major. The sequence of courses that follows requires a minimum of four Main Campus semesters to complete. Students majoring in broadcast and digital journalism will take the following courses:

Required courses (30 credits)
BDJ 312 - Audio and Digital News Writing, Reporting and Producing
BDJ 342 - Television and Digital News Reporting
COM 107 - Communications and Society
COM 117 - Multimedia Storytelling
COM 346 - Race, Gender, and the Media
Or
COM 348 - Beauty and Diversity in Fashion Media
Or
COM 350 - Topics in Media, Diversity and Inclusion
COM 505 - Communications Law for Journalists
JNL 211 - Cross-Media News Writing
JNL 221 - Foundations of Data and Digital Journalism
JNL 345 - Business and Ethics of Journalism in a Changing World
VIS 251 - Still Photography for Broadcast Journalism
VIS 261 - Videography for Broadcast Journalism
Grammar Competency Requirement
Students must complete a grammar competency as part of their degree requirements. There will be two ways students can satisfy this competency:
First, by passing a grammar competency exam during their first semester on campus. The exam will be given twice - once before the end of the first week of classes and a second time prior to registration the next semester.  A passing grade on the exam will fulfill the competency requirement.
Secondly, by passing COM 101, a 0-credit grammar course which will be mandatory for students who fail the grammar competency exam.  This course can be repeated until a passing grade is earned and the competency is met.
 Students must meet the grammar competency to receive a degree.
Global Experience
The Global Experience requirement may be fulfilled by studying abroad or taking an approved class. A list of courses that fulfill this requirement can be found in the Newhouse Guide Book. If a student chooses to take a Newhouse class to fulfill this requirement, the additional Newhouse hours will be added to the 122 credits needed for graduation if the student has reached the Newhouse credit maximum.
Advanced Reporting Course (3 credits)
Students can choose a course or a combination of courses that equals three credits.
BDJ 530 - Topics in Specialized Reporting II
MND 442 - Using Data to Tell Stories
MND 505 - Digital News & Innovation
Advanced Journalism Course (3 credits)
Students can choose a course or a combination of courses that equals three credits.
BDJ 535 - TV and Digital Reporting Practicum
BDJ 560 - Television News Magazine Production
BDJ 567 - Advanced Newscast Producing and News Management
MND 442 - Using Data to Tell Stories
MND 505 - Digital News & Innovation
MND 506 - Digital News Leadership
TRF 459 - Documentary Production
Newhouse Elective(s) (3 credits)
Broadcast and digital journalism majors choose three credits of Newhouse electives.  In consultation with their advisers, students should select as Newhouse electives courses that expand and enrich their knowledge of communications. The elective can not include internship credits.
Capstone Requirement (3 credits)
BDJ 465 - TV & Digital News Producing and Presenting
Total: 42 Newhouse credits required.

