Real Estate, BS
Contact:
Office of Undergraduate Programs, 215 Whitman School of Management, 315-443-2361
Faculty
Erasmo Giambona, Milena Petrova
Real estate represents approximately half of the world’s wealth and is the most important asset that most individuals will own in their life. Increased prominence of real estate has led to a growing demand for specialized skills in the analysis of development, investment and asset management decisions. 
The Real Estate Program at Whitman is designed to help students learn to analyze local tax laws, zoning regulations, contracts, property management, valuation, real estate finance and capital markets. The program emphasizes the development of an understanding of real estate fundamentals and the capacity to put this knowledge to work in a changing business environment. Students have the opportunity to participate in hands-on experiential education classes in NYC and are offered specialized training in real estate modeling using Excel and Argus. Further insights are gained through continuous interaction with dedicated faculty and successful executives. These experiences give our students both the academic and real-world underpinnings needed to make an immediate and meaningful impact in this dynamic industry.
Student Learning Outcomes
In addition to the comprehensive learning outcomes listed in the Whitman School’s Undergraduate Education description, students in this major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcomes:
1. Make decisions regarding commercial real estate investment, deal structuring and financing
2. Conduct real estate valuation of properties and real estate securities
Major Requirements
The B.S. degree in Real Estate at Whitman requires at least 122 credits (please see Whitman Bachelor of Science Degree Requirements), of which 15 credits are taken in the major area beyond the core requirements. The following is a sequence of courses to be taken as part of the 15-credit major requirement (credit hours in parentheses):

Required Courses
Sophomore Year
RES 332 - Real Estate Principles (3)
Junior Year
RES 362 - Real Estate Finance and Investment (3)
Elective Courses
Junior and Senior Years
RES electives (9)
Business elective (3)
RES Electives
RES electives may be chosen from the following: 
RES 342 - Real Estate Development
RES 400 - Selected Topics
RES 443 - Real Estate Capital Markets
RES 452 - Real Estate Asset Management
RES 472 - Case Studies in Real Estate Investment and Finance
RES 492 - Real Estate Modeling

