Creative Leadership Certificate
Contact:
Associate Dean: 
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Administrative Director:
Michele L. Mooney, Academic Program Administrator
College of Professional Studies, mlmooney@syr.edu
  Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Description:
The Creative Leadership certificate incorporates theory and practice in global, strategic, organizational, and creative leadership, as well coaching, the new essential skill for leaders.  This 15-credit hour certificate is designed for students who have earned at least 60 college credits. Students who desire a bachelor’s degree can complete this intermediate certificate along the way.
Admission:
30 college credits.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Explain the importance of professional relationships and networking
2. Identify possible causes for conflict in professional situations and propose creative scenarios
3. Apply knowledge gained to systematically problem solve
4. Develop tasks and work processes for desired organizational outcomes and have the ability to work face-to-face or virtually
Requirements
15 credits in upper division major/concentration courses as indicated:
Courses:
Required Courses (6 Credits)
CRL 301 - Introduction to Creative Leadership
CRL 311 - Professional Issues in Creative Leadership
 Choose 3 Courses (9 Credits) from the following:
CRL 319 - Global Leadership
BPS 325 - Creative and Design Thinking for Professional Studies
CRL 342 - Customer Relations Leadership
CRL 472 - Organizational Leadership
CRL 313 - Strategic Leadership in Professional Studies
CRL 320 - Coaching for Leaders
CRL 406 - Leading from Within
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
Total Credits: 15
Note:
The certificate is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to ensure certificate completion.

