Management, BS
Contact:
Office of Undergraduate Programs, 215 Whitman School of Management, 315-443-2361.
Faculty
Natarajan Balasubramanian, Pamela Brandes, Donald Cardarelli, Joel Carnevale, Ravi Dharwadkar, Rachael Goodwin, Lisa Knych, Peter Knych, Jamie Lyn Perry, Anparasan Mahalingam, Catherine Maritan, Cameron Miller, Kira Reed, Lynne Vincent, Frederick Vona
The major in management prepares students for professional positions that involve both macro and micro organizational processes and systems in corporations and their environments. Many Whitman students desire to join management training programs at multi-national corporations or the professional consulting firms that serve these global corporations; and others will go on to law school or another professional school. The major in management will give students the content and the context to develop the skills and perspectives to become managers and leaders in their chosen organizations and professions. Students are often attracted to the major because of its focus on the specific theory and practice of managing people and organizations.
The management major serves as a logical complement to other technical majors at Whitman and across campus. The knowledge and practices developed in the required courses allow graduates to analyze and use all the organizational processes and resources necessary to manage their positions and other employees. The diverse but focused interests of the department faculty provide the multiple foundations needed to develop the integrated sets of skills and perspectives to manage in today’s corporations and their complex environments.
Student Learning Outcomes
In addition to the comprehensive learning outcomes listed in the Whitman School’s Undergraduate Education description, students in this major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcomes:
1. Apply five leadership concepts
2. Evaluate effectiveness of firm’s competitive strategy
Major Requirements
Junior Year
MGT 346 - Organizational Behavior
Business elective (3)
Senior Year
MGT 447 - Advanced Topics in Strategic Management
MGT 462 - Leadership and Organization Change
MGT 355 - Strategic Human Resource Management
LPP 467 - Management and Ethics

