Science Education-Earth Science (Dual), BS
Contacts
For Intra-University Transfers:
Arts and Sciences: Advising and Academic Support Office, 323 Hall of Languages, 315-443-3150, casadvising@syr.edu
School of Education: Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230; 315-443-9319, soeadvising@syr.edu  
Program Contact:
Sharon Dotger, Program Coordinator, 150 Huntington Hall, 315-443-9138, sdotger@syr.edu
  Advances in science and technology have revolutionized the way people live. Science teachers from Syracuse University rise to the challenge of helping students learn the processes, skills, and body of scientific knowledge necessary to excel in the increasingly technological world. At Syracuse University, science education students work closely with faculty with the goal of becoming teachers who have strong science content knowledge; who teach using inclusive and culturally relevant practice and who critically reflect and explain their practice; who collaborate with others and exhibit professional conduct; and who are able to assess their students’ learning and development of scientific literacy.
Science education offers students four specific programs from which to choose their field of study: science education/biology, science education/chemistry, science education/earth science, science education/physics. In each of these areas, students have the opportunity to earn either a B.A. or B.S. degree, depending on which major requirements are completed in their primary science area. 
In the science education/earth sciences, B.S. option, students earn one B.S. degree with majors in earth science and science education/earth science, and complete courses in three major areas:
Liberal Arts Core and electives
Earth Sciences (B.S.) major in the College of Arts and Sciences
Professional education courses (including student teaching)
When planning their sequence of courses, students should keep in mind that at least 9 credits of education including student teaching are required in the fall of the senior year in order to meet the prerequisites for the spring student teaching experience. As many earth science courses as possible should be completed by the end of the junior year.
A total of 124 credits is required. Some students may need to complete total program credits that are slightly greater than 124. The program meets the academic requirements for New York State initial certification to teach earth science to grades 7-12. Successful completion of certification examinations, an application and a background check are also required for New York State teacher certification.
Students seeking one of the following majors in English, Mathematics, Science Education Biology, Science Education Chemistry, Science Education Earth Science, Science Education Physics, Social Studies Education, and Spanish Education) while dually enrolled in the School of Education and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 124-127 credits, including the Liberal Arts Core requirements, with some specified courses in the content area to be taught.
Admissions
A minimum of a 3.0 grade point average is required for admission to the College of Arts and Sciences and School of Education dual enrollment program. GPA requirements for admission to the candidacy and standard student teaching semesters, and other prerequisites to these semesters, are mentioned below. Intra-University transfer to the School of Education is coordinated through the Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230, and a course sequencing plan must be completed with an advisor at the time of application.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Acquire knowledge of each student, and demonstrate knowledge of student development and learning to promote achievement for all students
2. Know the content they are responsible for teaching, and plan instruction that ensures growth and achievement for all students
3. Implement instruction that engages and challenges all students to meet or exceed the learning standards
4. Work with all students to create a dynamic learning environment that supports achievement and growth
5. Use multiple measures to assess and document student growth, evaluate instructional effectiveness, and modify instruction
6. Demonstrate professional responsibility and engage relevant stakeholders to maximize student growth, development, and learning
7. Set informed goals and strive for continuous professional growth
Program Requirements
Liberal Arts Requirements
Within the Liberal Arts Core, major, and/or electives, science education/earth science majors must complete:
One approved history (HST) course (3 credits)
One social science course (other than history (HST) or psychology (PSY)) (3 credits)
One arts-related course within Arts and Sciences (History of Art (HOA) or History of Music (HOM), 3 credits)
One humanities course (other than history or arts-related, 3 credits)
One multicultural humanities or social science course (3 credits, may also meet one of the humanities or social science requirements above)
One approved calculus course (3-4 credits)
One course (minimum 3 credits) in a language other than English, or equivalent competency established by examination or successful completion of level three of high school study
Earth Science Major
Science education/earth science students must complete the Earth Sciences B.S. major as defined by the Earth Sciences Department.  Please note that the Earth Sciences B.S. requires additional coursework, paperwork, and an appropriate petition.  Students should confirm requirements directly with the department.  Additional coursework is required for science education/earth science students, including:
4 credits of AST 101 or AST 104 
One 2-semester introductory laboratory sequence in another science area (which would be fulfilled by the required Chemistry or Physics sequences for the B.S. major in earth sciences)
Professional Education Courses
The professional sequence includes coursework, field experience and student teaching, and requirements other than coursework, described below.
The Professional Core Requires:
EDU 204 - Principles of Learning in Inclusive Classrooms
EDU 304 - Study of Teaching
EDU 310 - The American School
RED 326 - Literacy Across the Curriculum
EDU 366 - Safe and Healthy Learning Environments
Special Notes:
EDU 304 and RED 326 should be taken after EDU 204; EDU 204 may be taken as early as the second semester of first year; all must be taken before the first professional semester. 
EDU 310 may be taken before, or after (extra semester) professional semesters.
EDU 366 or the equivalent Child Health and Life Safety Workshops and DASA training must be completed before the candidacy student teaching semester.
Candidacy Semester (fall of the senior year)
Note: The candidacy and standard student teaching semesters of registration listed are for students completing the program in four years. Others would adjust accordingly, with the two semesters as late in the program as possible. However, the candidacy semester must be completed in a fall semester.
Prerequisites: enrollment in the science education/earth science program; development of an acceptable professional portfolio (reviewed prior to the candidacy semester); a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA, and 3.0 in required education and in earth science courses; completion of EDU 204, EDU 304, EDU 366, RED 326; a majority of earth sciences and astronomy courses completed; and appropriate progress toward meeting all of the program assessment proficiencies and dispositions.
SCE 413 - Methods and Curriculum in Teaching Science
SPE 412 - Adapting Instruction for Diverse Student Needs
EDU 508 - Student Teaching
Standard Student Teaching Semester (spring of senior year)
Prerequisites: Successful completion of the candidacy semester and acceptable professional portfolio; completion of the required amount of credits in earth science; grade point averages at or above the minimums stated above; successful review of all appropriate student assessment proficiencies and dispositions.
EDU 508 - Student Teaching/Science (9 credits required)
SCE 416 - Assessment & Data-Driven Instruction/Science
Special Notes: Because this student teaching placement is a full-time, multi-week experience, no other daytime courses can be taken, and it is not advisable to plan more than 12 total credits in this semester, unless approved by an advisor.

