Biomedical Engineering, BS/MS
Contact
Julie Hasenwinkel, Biomedical & Chemical Engineering Department Chair
329 Link Hall; 315-443-1931; bmce@syr.edu
  Pun To Yung, Biomedical Engineering Undergraduate Program Director
361 Link Hall; 315-443-4848; ptung@syr.edu
  Shikha Nangia, Biomedical Engineering Graduate Program Director
343 Link Hall; 315-443-0571; snangia@syr.edu
Combined Degree Program




Program Description:
The combined BS/MS degree is designed to provide exceptional students at Syracuse University with the opportunity to “work ahead” and complete some of their future graduate-level degree requirements as an undergraduate student.
Students accepted into the 5-year BS/MS program will be able share up to 6 credits of 500+ level coursework toward the completion of both degrees. They will also have the opportunity to complete up to 6 credits of graduate-only coursework and transfer those credits toward their MS program of study.
Both shared and flagged credits will appear on the graduate transcript as a block of transfer credits labeled “transferred from SU undergraduate record”. These credits will not count toward graduate GPA calculations. A minimum grade of B is required to share or flag a course for transfer.

This combination of shared and transfer credit will allow the completion of both the Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering and the Masters of Science in Biomedical Engineering in five years.
Admission:
Students currently enrolled in the Biomedical Engineering BS program are eligible to apply to the 5-year BS/MS program during their junior year (have 3 semesters remaining).
Interested students must submit an internal application packet to the department, as described below, prior to January 15th.
Acceptance into the program is based on academic performance. Notification will be sent to students by February 15th.
Students who are accepted into the 5 year BS/MS program will receive further application instructions at the time of acceptance.
Students who are not accepted into the 5 year BS/MS program may still be offered early admission into the regular Biomedical Engineering MS program, at the discretion of the department.
Internal Application Packet
The application packet must consist of the following:
Two (2) faculty recommendations forms (described below);
The applicant’s personal statement (described below);
CV or resume; and
Unofficial transcript.
Faculty Recommendation Form
The packet must include two (2) faculty recommendation forms.
Faculty recommendations must be submitted directly from the faculty member to the department.
Recommendations may not come from current program directors.
Personal Statement
Applicants must include a one page personal statement explaining their interest in the 5 year BS/MS program:
12pt. Times New Roman font; and
1 in. margins on all sides.
Timeline:
Year 1 & 2
Enrollment in required undergraduate coursework
Year 3
Application to program. Continued enrollment in required undergraduate coursework, including at least one shared course.
Year 4
Enrollment in and completion of final required undergraduate coursework, including any remaining shared coursework. Enrollment in up to 6 credits of additional graduate-level coursework.
Year 5
Enrollment in and completion of graduate-level coursework.

