Jazz Studies Minor
Coordinator
John Coggiola, Director of Jazz Studies
202C Shaffer Arts Building, 315-443-5896, jccoggio@syr.edu
Faculty
John Coggiola (Morton Schiff Jazz Ensemble), Marianne Solivan (Jazz Voice, Orange Unified Vocal Jazz Ensemble), Irene Ialenti (Jazz Voice), Rick Balestra (Jazz Guitar, Jazz Guitar Ensemble, Rock Band), Boris Kozlov (Jazz Bass, Orange Juice), Theresa Chen (Jazz Piano, Jazz History, Jazz Theory), Joshua Dekaney (Jazz Drumset, Jazz Improvisation, Jazz Combo), Michael Dubaniewicz (Jazz Saxophone, Jazz Improvisation), John Hasselback (Jazz Trumpet), Corey Wallace (Jazz Trombone)
Description
The Minor in Jazz Studies is designed for students from any degree program on campus, including music majors, who want to develop and improve their knowledge and skills in instrumental or vocal jazz. This 18-credit program draws from the entire array of the jazz offerings in the Setnor School of Music including jazz performing ensembles, jazz history, jazz arranging and theory, jazz applied lessons and jazz education. The specific requirements are as follows:
Admission
Meet with Setnor School of Music advisor prior to beginning the program
3.0 GPA in at least one jazz performing ensemble
Positive recommendation from the Director of Jazz Studies
Student Learning Outcomes
JCM Harmony & Analysis (MTC 555 - Jazz Improvisation I):
a. demonstrate an understanding of the common elements and organizational patterns of improvised music and its aural and verbal analysis.
b. demonstrate a functional understanding of musical forms, processes, and structures.



JCM Harmony & Analysis (MTC 556 - Jazz Improvisation II):
a. demonstrate an understanding of the common elements and organizational patterns of improvised music and its aural and verbal analysis.
b. demonstrate a functional understanding of musical forms, processes, and structures.



JCM Harmony & Analysis (MTC 557 - Jazz Improvisation III):
a. demonstrate an understanding of the common elements and organizational patterns of improvised music and its aural and verbal analysis.
b. demonstrate a functional understanding of musical forms, processes, and structures.



JCM Harmony & Analysis (MTC 558 - Jazz Improvisation IV):
a. demonstrate an understanding of the common elements and organizational patterns of improvised music and its aural and verbal analysis.
b. demonstrate a functional understanding of musical forms, processes, and structures.



JCM Ensemble Performance (Two Semesters):
a. demonstrate artistry and technical skills in an ensemble setting featuring jazz/commercial music.
b. demonstrate collaborative competency and knowledge of the ensemble’s repertoire.
Minor Requirements
A total of 18 credits minimum of course work within the jazz curriculum, 11 of which are from the core requirements. The remaining 7 credits are selected through advisement.  At least 12 credits in the minor should be at the 300-level or higher.
Core Requirements: 11 credits
Core requirements include 4 select ensemble credits (from the list below), 4 jazz improvisation credits and 3 jazz history credits.
4 Ensemble credits
Specific ensembles are included below.  Additional ensembles may be used only via petition.
ENC 510 - Chamber Music Mixed
Includes Only: Jazz Combo, Jazz/Funk Combo, Rock Band, Jazz Guitar Ensemble, Orange Juice, Orange Zest
ENC 560 - Chamber Music/Percussion
Includes Only: Brazilian Ensemble, SASPO Steel Band
ENI 520 - Small Bands
Includes Only: Morton Schiff Jazz Ensemble, 2:00 Jazz Ensemble
ENV 520 - Small Chorus
Includes Only: Orange Collective, Orange Syndicate
4 Jazz Improvisation credits
MTC 555 - Jazz Improvisation I
MTC 556 - Jazz Improvisation II
MTC 557 - Jazz Improvisation III
MTC 558 - Jazz Improvisation IV
3 Jazz History credits
MHL 466 - History of Jazz
Any approved Arts & Sciences Jazz/Commercial Music History Class
Required Electives: 7 credits
The remaining 7 credits are selected through advisement from the following:
Private Lessons
Includes Jazz/Commercial Music (JCM) Lessons for: Piano (PNO), Guitar (GTR), String Bass (DBS), Drumset (DRS), Saxophone (SXP), Trumpet (TRP), Trombone (TRB), Voice (VOC)
Music Theory
(MTC 125 and MTC 126 apply only to students outside of the Setnor School of Music.)
MTC 125 - Introductory Music Theory I
MTC 126 - Introductory Music Theory II
MTC 551 - Songwriting
Music Major Theory Classes
(All Music Major Theory Classes listed below will only apply to students outside of the Setnor School of Music.)
MTC 145 - Diatonic Harmony I
MTC 146 - Diatonic Harmony II
MTC 147 - Ear Training I
MTC 148 - Ear Training II
MTC 245 - Chromatic Harmony I
MTC 246 - Chromatic Harmony II
MTC 247 - Ear Training III
MTC 248 - Ear Training IV
Ensembles
Specific ensembles are included below.  Additional ensembles may be used only via petition.
ENC 510 - Chamber Music Mixed
Includes Only: Jazz Combo, Jazz/Funk Combo, Rock Band, Jazz Guitar Ensemble, Orange Juice, Orange Zest
ENC 560 - Chamber Music/Percussion
Includes Only: Brazilian Ensemble, SASPO Steel Band
ENI 520 - Small Bands
Includes Only: Morton Schiff Jazz Ensemble, 2:00 Jazz Ensemble
ENV 520 - Small Chorus
Includes Only: Orange Collective, Orange Syndicate
Music Education
MUE 415 - Jazz Ensemble Techniques
Total Credits: 18
Restrictions
Students within the School of Music and outside of the School of Music are eligible for this minor.
Music Education Majors may use the required Jazz Elective(s) as part of this minor.

