Policy Studies, BA
Contact:
Peter Wilcoxen
Director, Policy Studies Program
225 Eggers Hall
315-443-2348
Email: wilcoxen@syr.edu
Faculty
Richard Barton, Robert Bifulco, Stuart Brown, William D. Coplin, Renée de Nevers, Todd Dickey, Catherine M. Gerard, Jay Golden, Sarah Hamersma, Colleen Heflin, Catherine Herrold, Johannes Himmelreich, Yilin Hou, Zachary Huitink, Lionel C. Johnson, W. Henry Lambright, Jun Li, Leonard M. Lopoo, John McPeak, Robert B. Murrett, Tina Nabatchi, Sean O’Keefe,Kristen Patel, David Popp, Michah W. Rothbart, Sabina Schnell, Ying Shi, Saba Siddiki, Michiko Ueda-Ballmer, David M. Van Slyke, Emily Wiemers, Peter Wilcoxen, Michael J. Williams
The major introduces students to historical, social, economic, and political factors shaping contemporary public policy issues. Students develop an expertise in a public policy area of their choice that provides a broad range of scholarly perspectives.
Students also acquire practical skills by studying policy issues through coursework in the Policy Studies Program, other departments in the Maxwell School and in the College of Arts and Sciences, Sport and Human Dynamics, Management, School of Education, Visual and Performing Arts and Newhouse. Students develop skills in social science research, computer applications, data collection and analysis, written and oral communications, interpersonal relations, planning, management, and problem solving. These skills are needed to obtain desirable entry-level positions in business, government, and the non-profit sector. They also serve as excellent preparation for admission to leading law schools and public, business, and health administration, as well as other graduate programs. The skills are also essential for participating effectively as a citizen in today’s world.
Several of the required major courses involve internships and policy-related field work. An integral part of the policy studies major is the completion of a research project for a government agency or community organization. This study is frequently used by graduates to display their talents to prospective employers and graduate schools. A practicum is also required in which students do applied research. Students complete no less than 6 and as many as 15 credits in community-based coursework.
Students take 70 percent of their coursework in a core that develops basic skills and covers essential concepts. The other 30 percent of coursework is a series of electives chosen by students to fit their policy interests.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Apply problem-solving techniques to ameliorate societal problems
2. Describe how public policy is implemented
3. Collect information in a variety of ways
4. Use computer programs to analyze quantitative data
5. Communicate effectively in verbal and written modes
6. Demonstrate ability to work effectively on team projects
7. Explain the causes and policies of societal problems in at least one area
Major Requirements
Students are required to take a 21-credit core and a 9-credits of electives numbered 300 or above.
Core Requirements
Students are required to take a 21-credit core and a 9-credits of electives numbered 300 or above.
PST 101 - An Introduction to the Analysis of Public Policy
MAX 123 - Critical Issues for the United States
MAX 201 - Quantitative Methods for the Social Sciences
ECN 101 - Introductory Microeconomics
PAI 305 - Policy Implementation
PST 315 - Methods of Public Policy Analysis and Presentation
PST 410 - Practicum in Public Policy
Electives
Three elective courses numbered 300 or above from the following list of Department prefixes, at least one of the three must be a PST or PAI course. Courses from the following prefixes are accepted for the other two electives: AAS, ANT, CCE, ECN, ESP, GEO, HIS, IRP, PSC, SOC, MAX, WRT, COM, CRS, EEE, FST, HSH, IST, LPP, NSD, PHP, SAL SWK, WGS.
 

