Marketing Management, BS
Contact:
Office of Undergraduate Programs, 215 Whitman School of Management, 315-443-2361
Faculty
Amiya Basu, Meheli Basu, Scott Fay, Minjung Kwon, E. Scott Lathrop, Eunkyu Lee, Hyoryung Nam, S.P. Raj, Susan Smith, Guiyang Xiong, Liangbin Yang
 The Marketing Management program at the Whitman School prepares students to successfully face challenges in today’s diverse and dynamic marketplace.  Students learn how to understand changing customer needs and to identify customer segments and develop global markets, how to effectively bring new products and services to market and to stimulate demand with persuasive communications, and how to build and sustain profitable customer relationships.
In most Whitman Marketing courses, experiential learning plays an important role: like marketing professionals, students work in project teams to develop strategies for new product development, pricing, promotion, and distribution.  Students also learn to proactively plan for competitive challenges, regulatory changes, and evolving social responsibilities. 
Our Marketing graduates are well prepared for promising careers in a broad range of industries including advertising and digital communications, consumer packaged goods, retail management, financial services, consulting, technology, and ecommerce. Recent graduates have accepted entry-level positions as account managers, digital marketing assistants, market analysts, media planners, product assistants, assistant brand strategists, social media strategists, sales executives, business development associates, and business consultants.  All of these positions require a broad range of analytical, creative and strategic leadership skills.
The Whitman Marketing faculty strive to educate future Marketing Management professionals who are enterprising and eager to create value through innovation.  In a world rapidly transforming to the digital age, our graduates are ready to take the initiative and thrive in the global marketplace.
Student Learning Outcomes
In addition to the comprehensive learning outcomes listed in the Whitman School’s Undergraduate Education description, students in this major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcomes:
1. Understand customer needs to inform marketing decisions.
2. Create plans for delivering value to customers through Product, Price, Distribution, and Promotion strategies.
3. Understand marketing decisions in a global setting.
Major Requirements
In addition to the MAR 255 core requirement, students majoring in marketing must take the following courses (credit hours in parentheses):
Junior and Senior Year
MAR 356 - Marketing Research (3)
Major electives (12)
Business elective (3)
Marketing major electives may be chosen from the following:
MAR 357 - Consumer Behavior
MAR 400 - Selected Topics in Marketing
MAR 444 - New Product Management
MAR 445 - Brand Management
MAR 452 - Pricing Strategies for Products and Services
MAR 453 - Marketing Analytics
MAR 454 - Digital Marketing
MAR 455 - Marketing Communications *
MAR 456 - Global Marketing Strategy

