Biomedical Engineering/Business Administration, BS/MBA
Contact
Whitman Graduate Programs Office, Suite 315, 315-443-4327, busgrad@syr.edu
Maria Marceau, Director of Student Records and Study Abroad, College of Engineering & Computer Science, 130 Link Hall, 315-443-5191, mcmarce@syr.edu
  Students will complete 130 credits for the Bachelor of Science in Biomedical Engineering degree and an additional 54 credits for the MBA degree.
3-2 Program
Program Description
The joint B.S. Engineering/MBA program is designed to provide high-caliber students at Syracuse University with the opportunity to complete a bachelor’s degree in the College of Engineering and Computer Science and an MBA degree in the Whitman School of Management in five years with minimal additional expense and time.
Accreditation
The Whitman School has been accredited by the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB International) since 1920.
Admission
Students in the Engineering school will apply for the MBA program during their sophomore year. Students are required to take the GMAT as part of the application process. Applicants will be considered for the program based on their GMAT score, previous academic experience, work experience, professional references, and personal statements.
Degree Requirements
Students admitted to the MBA program will be awarded their B.S. in engineering degree concurrently with their MBA degree, as they will complete their B.S. and MBA requirements during their fifth year.
3+2 Program Requirements:
Year 1 & 2: Enrollment in required undergraduate coursework
Year 3: Enrollment in some MBA courses and summer MBA coursework, continued progress in undergraduate coursework
Year 4: Enrollment in some MBA courses and summer MBA internship, continued progress in undergraduate coursework
Year 5: Completion of BS and MBA coursework
Transfer Credit
Students can transfer a maximum of 6 credits of elective coursework for the MBA degree. The credits must be graduate level taken from an AACSB accredited business school. A grade of “B” or higher is needed to transfer in the credits. The grade itself does not transfer.
Satisfactory Progress
Students are required to maintain a GPA of 3.0 or higher to meet degree requirements for the MBA.

