Inclusive Early Childhood Special Education, BS (NOT ADMITTING STUDENTS)
*Note: This program is not currently accepting students. 
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Acquire knowledge of each student, and demonstrate knowledge of student development and learning to promote achievement for all students
2. Know the content they are responsible for teaching, and plan instruction that ensures growth and achievement for all students
3. Implement instruction that engages and challenges all students to meet or exceed the learning standards
4. Work with all students to create a dynamic learning environment that supports achievement and growth
5. Use multiple measures to assess and document student growth, evaluate instructional effectiveness, and modify instruction
6. Demonstrate professional responsibility and engage relevant stakeholders to maximize student growth, development, and learning
7. Set informed goals and strive for continuous professional growth
Inclusive Early Childhood Special Education, BS
Contact:
For Intra-University Transfers:
School of Education, Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Ave., Suite 230, 315-443-9319,  soeadvising@syr.edu
George Theoharis, Program Coordinator, 150 Huntington Hall, 315-443-1468, gtheohar@syr.edu
Description
This B.S. degree program is a dual program between the School of Education and the David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics - with the School of Education as the home school. This program meets the academic requirements for New York State teacher certification in both Early Childhood (birth - grade 2) and Students with Disabilities (birth - grade 2).  It seeks to prepare students to make a difference in the lives of children through a strong inclusive education and social justice philosophy and teaching skills, and solid knowledge of the core subjects to be taught and how to teach them.  A cornerstone of the program is the extensive and varied series of field experiences it offers, coordinating coursework with fieldwork in the schools as early as the first year of study. Many schools and childcare centers in the Syracuse area are at the forefront of inclusive education. Through our close partnerships with local schools and early childhood centers that welcome all students, and with our wide network of urban, suburban, and rural school affiliations, we provide a broad range of opportunities for getting the most out of field experiences. 
Program Requirements
Program requirements include liberal arts skills, a concentration in social/behavioral science with emphasis on human development and family science, and professional coursework. This intense program typically requires a minimum of 135 credits. The length varies and can be more than 138 credits, depending on the student’s mathematics and foreign language background, and other choices made by the student. In most cases, students enroll for more than 15 credits in a semester and/or take summer courses (at SU or other colleges) to complete the degree within four years. Therefore, prospective students not already enrolled in the School of Education are encouraged to consult with the School of Education as early as possible.
Liberal Arts Requirements:
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing or
WRT 109 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing (Honors)
 WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing or
WRT 209 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing (Honors)
 MAT 117 - Foundational Mathematics via Problem Solving I
MAT 118 - Foundational Mathematics via Problem Solving II
SCI 104 - Science-Questions and Quests: Physical Phenomena I
SCI 105 - Science-Questions and Quests: Physical Phenomena II
U.S. History (3 credits)
History II (diversity within the U.S. or Global History) (3 credits)
Geography (3 credits)
Citizenship, Economics, and Government (3 credits)
Global Perspectives (3 credits)
Literature (6 credits)
Other liberal arts breadth (3 credits) Choose one course from the program’s list of approved fine arts, philosophy, religion, mathematics, or scientific perspectives courses.
Language Other than English - One course (minimum 3 credits) in a language other than English (including American Sign Language), or equivalent competency established by examination or passing level three of high school study
Human Development and Family Science/Social Science Concentration:
HFS 201 - Family Development
HFS 202 - Development of Children
HFS 331 - Play, Childhood Development and Early Education
HFS 345 - The Developing Infant
HFS 395 - Risk, Resilience, and Intervention
 HFS 467 - Child and Family in Cross-Cultural Perspectives or
HFS 482 - Development in Immigrant & Refugee Families
 HFS 447 - Principles and Practices in Parenting or
HFS 479 - Power, Conflict, Violence, and the Family or
HFS 487 - Critical Incidents in Family Development
Three social science courses (9 credits) used to meet distribution requirements above. At least one must be 300 level.
Professional Education Requirements:
EDU 203 - Introduction to Inclusive Schooling
EDU 201 - Practicum in Pre-K Inclusive Education
SPE 311 - Perspectives on Disabilities
IDE 201 - Integrating Technology into Instruction I
HFS 492 - Child Internship
HFS 335 - Issues and Perspectives in Early Childhood Education
CSD 303 - Communication in the Classroom
EDU 366 - Safe and Healthy Learning Environments
Arts in Education (Complete two courses from the following list (2 credits total)
EDU 431 - Art in the Classroom
EDU 432 - Music in the Classroom
EDU 433 - Speech and Drama in the Classroom
Assessment
Both this program and the teaching profession are demanding, requiring not only appropriate attitudes about children and skills in working with them, but also knowledge of the content to be taught, excellent writing skills, critical thinking skills, and much more. Students’ progress is reviewed several times through the program against specific proficiencies and other assessment criteria. Effective for those entering the program Fall 2014 or later, to be eligible for Block I, students must have a 3.0 cumulative GPA; a 3.0 average for and no grade below a B- in EDU 203, EDU 201, SPE 311, and HFS 492 (if taken before Block I); a B- or better grade in each writing course taken; and a B- or better average with no grade below a C in both the two required mathematics courses and the two required natural science courses, with at least one B- grade in each before entering Block I. In addition, they must have satisfactory ratings on the proficiencies and dispositions that are part of the professional courses and field experiences. Reviews also take place to determine eligibility to enter subsequent professional blocks, and additional information about this is available from the program faculty teaching in the blocks.
Block I
EED 314 - Teaching Strategies for Inclusive Education
EED 325 - Primary Grade Literacy Methods and Curriculum
EED 361 - Block I Field Experience and Seminar
Block II
EED 323 - Primary Grade Mathematics Methods and Curriculum
EED 328 - Block II Field Experience
EED 336 - Elementary Social Studies Methods and Curriculum
EED 362 - Block II Field Seminar
SPE 324 - Differentiation for Inclusive Education
EDU 434 - Creative Movement for the Classroom
IDE 301 - Integrating Technology into Instruction II
Early Childhood Block III
EED 445 - Inclusive Early Childhood Education Integrated Methods and Curriculum
EED 446 - Inclusive Early Childhood Special Education PreK Field Experience
IDE 401 - Integrating Technology into Instruction III
Student Teaching
All students must complete EDU 366 - Safe and Healthy Learning Environments before the student teaching semester.
EED 464 - Student Teaching Seminar/Inclusive Education
EDU 508 - Student Teaching Inclusive Early Childhood Special Education (12 credits)
SPE 434 - Collaborative Teaching for Inclusive Education
A Bridge to the City
A Bridge to the City provides Inclusive Early Childhood teacher candidates with a student teaching experience in the vibrant urban environment of New York City.  This is a unique opportunity for these students to sharpen their skills and broaden their perspectives on cultures, families, and professional practices.  Interested students work with their advisors beginning in the first year in order to plan for this, apply for this opportunity during their junior year, and if selected will student teach in NYC during the fall of their senior year.
Total Credits: minimum of 135 credits
Degree Awarded: BS
Study Abroad:
Due to the professional education sequence, the study abroad semester for students completing in four years must be fall of the senior year. 

