Earth Sciences, BA
Gregory D. Hoke, Chair
earthenvsciences@syr.edu
204 Heroy Geology Laboratory
315-443-2672
Faculty
Suzanne Baldwin, Tripti Bhattacharya, Melissa Chipman, Daniel Curewitz, Paul Fitzgerald, Gregory Hoke, Linda Ivany, Christopher Junium, Zunli Lu, Aaron Mohammed, Robert Moucha, Cathryn Newton, Joshua Russell, Scott Samson, Christopher Scholz, Jay Thomas, John Tillotson, Samuel Tuttle, Tao Wen
The Earth Sciences provide insights into some of humanity’s deepest questions. How was the planet Earth, our lifeboat in space, formed? What are the processes that have shaped the Earth - its surface and internal structure? How has life, of which humanity is a part, evolved? Why are there earthquakes, volcanoes, mountain chains, continents, and oceans? How has the surface of the Earth and its environments changed through time? On a practical level, the study of Earth Sciences provides a basis for understanding natural hazards, assessing Earth’s climate variability and global change, predicting the migration of man-made pollutants, and exploring for the energy and mineral resources upon which society depends. The BA degree in Earth Science is recommended for those students who enjoy and are intellectually intrigued by the Earth Sciences but intend to pursue careers in broader fields such as law, business, journalism, resource management or teaching and educational outreach. Along with intellectual enrichment, the BA degree provides a rounded science foundation and critical thinking skills and is a good option to combine with othee majors.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
Explain process-based linkages among tectonics, climate, and life as illustrated by the Earth system over time.
Understand the importance of Earth Science in society.
Effectively synthesize published literature related to geological sciences in a written report and/or a data product.
Develop written and verbal communication skills required to effectively convey science to a wide range of audiences.
Requirements for a B.A. Degree in Earth Sciences
The BA degree in Earth Sciences requires at least 35 credits of Earth and Environmental Science course work including auxiliary math and science coursework.

Introductory Earth Science Courses
EAR 105 - Earth Science and
EAR 104 - Earth Sciences Laboratory
Note: EAR 104 is the laboratory course for EAR 105 and must be taken concurrently.
or
EAR 203 - Earth System Science
Sequence Earth Science Course
EAR 210 - History of Earth and Life
Ancillary Science and Mathematics Courses
CHE 106 - General Chemistry Lecture I
CHE 107 - General Chemistry Laboratory I
• A Math course that is greater than or equal to MAT194
Introduction to Earth and Environmental Science Skills Set
EAR 201 - Introduction to Earth and Environmental Data Analysis
Divisions of Earth Science
Choose 4 courses spanning at least two of the following blocks with appropriate prerequisites. Other courses may be substituted by petition.
Block 1: Fundamentals of Geology
EAR 314 - Mineralogy
EAR 317 - Sedimentary Processes and Systems
EAR 333 - Structural Geology
EAR 417 - Geochemistry
Block 2: Solid Earth
EAR 403 - Geomorphology
EAR 418 - Petrology
EAR 431 - Plate Tectonics
EAR 435 - Geophysics
Block 3: Water Science
EAR 401 - Hydrogeology
EAR 413 - Physical Hydrology
EAR 419 - Environmental Aqueous Geochemistry
EAR 311 - Environmental Geophysics
Block 4: Ancient Climates and Ecosystems
EAR 325 - Introduction to Paleobiology
EAR 405 - Global Change:Geologic Record
EAR 415 - Introduction to Climate Dynamics
Department Electives
At least 6-credits of any upper-division EAR or approved auxiliary science or math course(s)
Requirements For Distinction
GPA Within Department 3.6
Overal GPA, by end of senior year of 3.4
Other Criteria Required for the Degree with Distinction:
Students must complete a research-based senior thesis in conjunction with a faculty supervisor. The thesis must constitute independent, hypothesis-driven research involving investigative tools and techniques in the Earth Sciences. Students must submit the written thesis to the department and give a public seminar reporting their results. Students should register for EAR 409 - Senior Thesis in Earth Science in the semester in which they plan to submit the thesis. All else being satisfied, Distinction is conferred following a vote of approval from the Faculty of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences.

