Earth Sciences, Minor
Gregory D. Hoke, Chair
earthenvsciences@syr.edu
204 Heroy Geology Laboratory
315-443-2672
Faculty
Suzanne Baldwin, Tripti Bhattacharya, Melissa Chipman, Daniel Curewitz, Paul Fitzgerald, Gregory Hoke, Linda Ivany, Christopher Junium, Zunli Lu, Aaron Mohammed, Robert Moucha, Cathryn Newton, Joshua Russell, Scott Samson, Christopher Scholz, Jay Thomas, John Tillotson, Samuel Tuttle, Tao Wen
The Earth Sciences provide insights into some of humanity’s deepest questions. How was the planet Earth, our lifeboat in space, formed? What are the processes that have shaped the Earth - its surface and internal structure? How has life, of which humanity is a part, evolved? Why are there earthquakes, volcanoes, mountain chains, continents, and oceans? How has the surface of the Earth and its environments changed through time?
The Earth Sciences provide insights into some of humanity’s deepest questions. How was the planet Earth, our lifeboat in space, formed? What are the processes that have shaped the Earth - its surface and internal structure? How has life, of which humanity is a part, evolved? Why are there earthquakes, volcanoes, mountain chains, continents, and oceans? How has the surface of the Earth and its environments changed through time?
The department of Earth and Environmental Sciences welcomes majors from all departments to pursue this minor.  Students with majors in other areas may find that a minor in Earth Sciences provides a flexible way to satisfy their curiosity about our planet and can be an asset for those competing for admission to professional schools such as law and medicine. Alternatively, if you are a science major in Biology, Chemistry or Physics, you can use this minor to explore the application of your field to the Earth (e.g., geobiology, geochemistry or geophysics).
Student Learning Outcomes
Explain process-based linkages among tectonics, climate, and life as illustrated by the Earth system over time.
Understand the importance of Earth Science in society.
Effectively synthesize published literature related to geological sciences in a written report and/or a data product
Requirements for Minor in Earth Sciences
To complete a minor in Earth Sciences, students must take 20 credits in Earth Sciences which include:
Introductory Earth Science Courses
EAR 105 - Earth Science
and
EAR 104 - Earth Sciences Laboratory
Note: EAR 104 must be taken concurrently with EAR 105
or
EAR 203 - Earth System Science
Sequence Earth Science Course
EAR 210 - History of Earth and Life
Department Electives
At least 12-credits of any upper-division EAR courses.

