Public Health, BS/MS (Not currently admitting)
Contact
The BS/MS in Public Health is not currently admitting students.
Description
The BS in Public Health/Masters Public Health is a 150-credit hour, 5-year academic program that provides students with an accelerated pathway to an advanced degree in public health.  Students gain core knowledge, research, and practice skills necessary for the advancement of evidence-based public health, while eliminating redundancy if the degrees were completed separately. 
  Students complete a public health internship in year 4 of study.  The bachelor’s degree is awarded at the completion of year 4 and the master’s degree is awarded at the completion of the 5th year of study.
  Each degree requires a culminating experience. The bachelor’s degree requires a capstone internship paper.  The master’s degree requires a thesis.
Admission
Students may declare their intent to follow the program during the fourth semester of study for students who entered Syracuse University as freshman public health majors.
Internal and external transfer students interested in the dual degree program must meet with the program directors to determine if prior coursework is applicable and if the program can be completed within the 5-year time period. 
During the fall of year 4, students complete the application for formal entry to the graduate program.  A personal statement and three letters of recommendation are required.
Financial Support
Undergraduate financial aid will be provided as awarded via Syracuse University Financial Aid Office.
Limited department financial aid is available in the form of graduate assistantships and scholarship credits for students enrolled in masters programs. Financial aid is determined based on merit.
Additional information regarding graduate financial aid can be found at https://graduateadmissions.syr.edu/funding/
Facilities
Courses will be taught in classrooms across the newly renovated Falk Complex. Public health faculty and administrative offices are housed in 2 suites within the Falk Complex. In addition to administrative and academic program offices and classrooms, the Falk Complex also offers student access to dedicated study/collaborative space, computer labs and comforts like a café and student lounge.
Transfer Credit
The usual Syracuse University rules will apply for the consideration of transfer credit. 
Transfer credit will be considered for undergraduate level courses (100-499) that are an integral part of the program.  Grades of C or better are required for UG courses considered for transfer.  A maximum of 66 credits from a combination of credit from a two-year college and any other credit (e.g., AP exams, experiential learning) will be accepted.  A maximum of 90 credits of transfer credit or a combination of transfer credit and any other credit (e.g., AP exams, experiential learning) will be accepted from a combination of two and four-year colleges.
Transfer credit will be considered for graduate level courses (600-799) that are an integral part of the program.  Grades of B or better are required for graduate courses considered for transfer.  A maximum of 9 credits of GRAD coursework may be transferred.
Part-time Study
Part-time study is not available for this program.
Satisfactory Progress
Students are required to maintain a CUM GPA of 2.0 or higher to meet degree requirements for the BS degree.
Students are required to maintain a CUM GPA of 3.0 or higher to meet degree requirements for the MSPH degree.
Total Credits Required
B.S.  Public Health:  123
Master’s Public Health:   42
[15 credits shared across both programs]

