Communications Design, BFA
Contact
Marc Stress, Program Coordinator
The Nancy Cantor Warehouse, mvstress@syr.edu
Faculty
Rachel Aubrey, Rebecca Kelly, Roderick Martinez, Marc Stress, Meri Page
Description
This B.F.A. degree program introduces a field offering almost unlimited options and professional opportunities. Its unique structure enables students to pursue a broad range of interests pertaining to the profession of communications design. Branding, corporate graphics and identity systems, advertising, packaging, environmental graphics, exhibition design, visual marketing, publication design and electronic and interactive media are some of the most common areas of study. The program is designed to accommodate many relevant interests in the overall design profession and pragmatically prepares graduates for careers in the field.
The courses emphasize, above all else, the conceptual and strategic aspects of advertising, marketing and communications design as well as the development of basic design skills, the use of technology, and the historical and theoretical foundations of design.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Solve communication problems with a defined process
2. Demonstrate skills of indication, accuracy, and use of materials
3. Create/direct visual form/Image in response to communication problems
4. Visually organize compositions/layouts including, image and typographic hierarchy
5. Describe and respond with clear and original design concept decisions, to the audiences and contexts that communication solutions must address
6. Understand of the professionalism of basic business practices
Program Requirements
Major Requirements: 51 credits
DES 101 - Digital Tools for Designers I
DES 102 - Digital Tools for Designers II
DES 103 - Analog Design Tools
CMD 104 - Fundamentals of Communications Design
CMD 251 - Intro Communication Design I
CMD 252 - Intro Communication Design II
CMD 281 - Design Methods
CMD 282 - Design Skills & Processes
CMD 351 - Problem Solving Strategies
CMD 352 - Design Project Management
CMD 450 - Communication Design Problems (x2) 3 credits each
CMD 450 - Communication Design Problems (x2) 6 credits each
CMD 452 - Portfolio & Practice
Art History Requirements: 12 credits
DES 114 - Design, Cultural Traditions and the Environment
Art/Design History Elective  3 credits
Art/Design History Elective  3 credits
DES 113 - History of Modern Design: 1850-Present
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Liberal Arts Electives (12 credits)/Academic Electives (12 credits)*
Academic electives are most courses offered outside of art, design, or transmedia (for example, courses offered in CRS, Arts and Sciences, Whitman, and other colleges outside of VPA). These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, and entrepreneurship, and languages at the 100-level, among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here.
*The required 24 credits should consist of 12 credits of Liberal Arts & Sciences, and 12 credits of Academic Electives.
Studio Electives 18 credits
Studio electives are courses usually offered in VPA through art, design, or transmedia.  The content of the courses directly relates to the preparation of students for professional careers in art, design, and transmedia. The course content includes, but is not limited to, conceptualization, process, product, and critique of creative work in studio practice. These courses meet for a much longer time, for a minimum of four hours per week for the duration of the semester. Usual meeting patterns are: the class meets once per week for four+ hours, or the class meets twice per week, usually for two or more hours each. You can find a comprehensive list of courses that count as studio electives here.
Free Electives 8 credits
Study Abroad
Pending a successful application and meeting program requirements, students may be eligible to spend the spring semester of their junior year abroad at the SU Center in London, UK or in Florence, Italy. Please refer to the SUAbroad website for eligibility and application criteria.
Total Credits Required: 120
Degree Awarded: BFA in Communications Design

