Sport Event Management, Minor
Coordinator
Gina Pauline, Undergraduate Program Director

402 MacNaughton Hall
315-443-2630
gapaulin@syr.edu
Description
The 18-credit minor in Sport Event Management minor is designed for students who are interested in pursuing a path in the sport venue and event management field along with their chosen major. Students selecting this minor, within the Department of Sport Management, should have an interest in learning about the conceptualization, planning, implementation, evaluation, and business aspects of sport event management.
Admission
Applicants are required to have a minimum of a 3.0 cumulative GPA and will be admitted on a space available basis. To be eligible, a student must have completed 30 credits at Syracuse University in courses graded A-F and must submit a minor application to the Department of Sport Management (402 MacNaughton Hall) by November 1st for spring admission or April 1st for fall admission. Students must meet the required cumulative GPA for the semester in which the student applied. The GPA cutoff will vary each semester, depending on space availability. Students must declare the sport venue and event management minor no later than the first semester of their junior year.
Student Learning Outcomes
Students will gain a solid theoretical background and application for the conceptualization, planning, implementation, evaluation, and business aspects of the sport event management field. Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
1. Explain, discuss, and analyze core principles of and concepts of event management.
2. Apply the principles of event management to planning an actual event.
3. Discuss event management concepts with professional and general audiences orally and in writing.
4. Describe and critique the operational functions of sport events and associated events.
5. Use computer software for managing sport events in various settings.
Required Courses - 9 credits
SPM 224 - Introduction to Sport Event Management
SPM 305 - Principles of Sport Hospitality Management
SPM 437 - Sport Venue Management
Elective Courses - 9 credits - choose 3 courses from the list below
SPM 199 - The Super Bowl: Sport, Culture and Entertainment
SPM 324 - Sport Sponsorship and Promotion
SPM 342 - The Business of Esports
SPM 356 - Olympic Sport Management
SPM 357 - Olympic Odyssey
SPM 358 - Sport Management LA Immersion
SPM 449 - Technologies in Game Day Operations
Total Credits Required: 18
Restrictions
The Sport Event Management minor is open to all students based on the admission requirements stated above.

