Spanish Education (Dual), BA (Not admitting students as of Fall 2023)
The School of Education is not currently accepting applications for the Spanish Education program. Please consider the Spanish Language, Literature and Culture, BA program in the College of Arts and Sciences.
Contacts
For Intra-University Transfers:
Arts and Sciences: Advising and Academic Support Office, 323 Hall of Languages, 315-443-3150, casadvising@syr.edu
School of Education: Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230; 315-443-9319, casadvising@syr.edu
Program Contact:
Gail Bulman, gabulman@syr.edu
The Spanish Education program at Syracuse University is a dual program between the School of Education and the College of Arts and Sciences, in which students earn one degree (B.A.) with majors from each school/college. The program meets the academic requirements for New York State certification to teach Spanish in grades 7-12.  Successful completion of certification examinations, an application, and a background check are also required for New York State teacher certification.
Program requirements include:
Liberal Arts Core and electives
Spanish Language, Literature, and Culture major requirements
Spanish Education professional education courses and experiences in schools
When planning their sequence of courses, students should keep in mind that at least 6 credits of education including student teaching are required in the fall of the senior year in order to meet the prerequisites for the spring student teaching experience. As many content (Spanish) courses as possible should be completed by the end of the junior year.
A total of 124 credits is required, with 96 of these (including EDU 310) from the College of Arts and Sciences. Some students may need to complete total program credits that are slightly greater than 124.
Admissions
A minimum of a 3.0 grade point average is required for admission to the College of Arts and Sciences and School of Education dual enrollment program. GPA requirements for admission to the candidacy and standard student teaching semesters, and other prerequisites to these semesters, are mentioned below. Intra-University transfer to the School of Education is coordinated through the Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230, and a course sequencing plan must be completed with an advisor at the time of application.
Student Learning Outcomes
Students acquire knowledge of each student, and demonstrate knowledge of student development and learning to promote achievement for all students.
Students know the content they are responsible for teaching, and plan instruction that ensures growth and achievement for all students.
Students implement instruction that engages and challenges all students to meet or exceed the learning standards.
Students work with all students to create a dynamic learning environment that supports achievement and growth.
Students use multiple measures to assess and document student growth, evaluate instructional effectiveness, and modify instruction.
Students demonstrate professional responsibility and engage relevant stakeholders to maximize student growth, development, and learning.
Students set informed goals and strive for continuous professional growth.
Program Requirements
Liberal Arts Requirements
Secondary Spanish education majors must complete the Liberal Arts Core curriculum with these additional specific requirements:
One mathematics (MAT) course from Liberal Arts Core Quantitative Skills List (3 credits)
One approved history (HST) course (3 credits)
One social science course (other than history (HST) or psychology (PSY)) (3 credits)
One arts related course within Arts and Sciences (HOA or HOM, or other approved humanities course focusing on one or more of the arts) (3 credits)
Note: If available, these may be courses taught in Spanish, although a petition may be necessary.
Spanish Content
Spanish Education students must complete the Spanish Language, Literature and Culture major as defined by the Languages, Literature and Linguistics Department, with some additional Spanish credits. 33 credits are required at the 300 level and above, with 21 credits (7 courses) of these at the 400 level. Spanish Education students must complete the following courses (including some not required of other Spanish  majors) within their programs, with at least 15 of the course credits completed on the SU campus:
SPA 301 - Approaches to Reading Texts
SPA 302 - Advanced Language Usage
SPA 321 - Introduction to Spanish Literature
SPA 322 - Introduction to Latin American Literature
SPA 435 - Spanish Phonetics and Phonology
SPA 436 - The Structure of Spanish
• SPA 4XX - 1 course of Latino Literature (3 credits)
• SPA 4XX - 2 courses of Latin American Literature (6 credits)
• SPA 4XX - 2 courses of Spanish Peninsular Literature (6 credits)
Study Abroad
Study abroad in a SU Abroad’s centers in either Santiago, Chile or Madrid, Spain is highly encouraged and is relatively easy to do with careful planning.  Please note that if students choose to study abroad, it must be completed in the fall of junior year or spring of the sophomore year, as students must be on campus in the spring of their junior year and their senior year for required coursework.
Professional Education Courses
The professional sequence includes coursework, field experience and student teaching, and requirements other than coursework, described below.
The Professional Core Requires:
EDU 204 - Principles of Learning in Inclusive Classrooms
EDU 304 - Study of Teaching
EDU 310 - The American School
RED 326 - Literacy Across the Curriculum
EDU 366 - Safe and Healthy Learning Environments
Special Notes:
EDU 304 and RED 326 should be taken after EDU 204; EDU 204 may be taken as early as the second semester of first year; All must be taken before the first professional semester. 
EDU 310 may be taken before, or after (extra semester) professional semesters.
EDU 366 or the equivalent Child Health and Life Safety Workshops and DASA training must be completed before the first student teaching (candidacy) semester.
Candidacy Semester (fall of the senior year)
Note: The requirements listed below are for students completing the program in four years. Others would adjust accordingly, with the candidacy and second professional semester as late in the program as possible. However, the candidacy semester must be completed in a fall semester.
Prerequisites: enrollment in both majors; development of an acceptable professional portfolio (reviewed prior to the candidacy semester); a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA, and 3.0 in required education and in content (Spanish) courses; completion of EDU 204, EDU 304, EDU 366, RED 326; a majority of SPA credits completed; a Spanish proficiency test with a result of advanced-mid or higher on the ACTFL proficiency scale; and appropriate progress toward meeting all of the program assessment proficiencies and dispositions.
LIN 321 - Introduction to Methodology of Teaching Languages: English/Foreign Language Teaching
SPE 412 - Adapting Instruction for Diverse Student Needs
EDU 508 - Student Teaching
Standard Student Teaching Semester (spring of senior year)
Prerequisites: Successful completion of the candidacy semester and acceptable professional portfolio; completion of the required amount of credits in the content area; grade point averages at or above the minimums stated above; successful review of all appropriate student assessment proficiencies and dispositions.
EDU 508 - Student Teaching/Spanish (9 credits required)
SPA 403 - Advanced Methods for Teaching Spanish
Special Notes: Because this student teaching placement is a full-time, multi-week experience, no other daytime courses can be taken, and it is not advisable to plan more than 12 total credits in this semester, unless approved by an advisor.

