Magazine, News and Digital Journalism, BS
Contact:
Aileen Gallagher, Chair
Magazine, News and Digital Journalism Department
318 Newhouse 3, 315-443-2153
Faculty
Lauren Bavis, Harriet Brown, Joshua Darr, Aileen Gallagher, Seth Gitner, Jon Glass, Eric Grode, Jen Grygiel, Roy Gutterman, Nausheen Husain, Rawiya Kameir, Joel Kaplan, Edecio Martinez, Greg Munno, Dan Pacheco, Adam Peruta, Alex Richards, Corey Takahashi, Jodi Upton
Students in the magazine, news and digital journalism program learn to meet the challenges of a complex and evolving industry. In small classes taught by industry professionals, students develop their ability to create content for a variety of audiences and platforms. The program’s emphasis remains core skills such as editing, interviewing, reporting, and writing. Students also gain experience with design, data, multimedia, and social media, and produce content for The NewsHouse, the Newhouse School’s multimedia news magazine, campus publications, and local media outlets. Curriculum also includes diversity issues, law, and ethics.
Student Learning Outcomes Magazine, News and Digital Journalism
In addition to the comprehensive Newhouse School learning outcomes listed in the School’s Educational Mission, students in the Magazine, News and Digital Journalism major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcome:
Integrate journalism skills to report, research, write, and produce a range of content types for a variety of platforms and audiences
Major Requirements
Students are required to complete 42 Newhouse credits in the Magazine, News and Digital Journalism major. The major requirements are outlined below.
Required Courses (30 credits)
COM 107 - Communications and Society
COM 117 - Multimedia Storytelling
COM 346 - Race, Gender, and the Media
Or
COM 348 - Beauty and Diversity in Fashion Media
Or
COM 350 - Topics in Media, Diversity and Inclusion
COM 505 - Communications Law for Journalists
JNL 211 - Cross-Media News Writing
JNL 221 - Foundations of Data and Digital Journalism
JNL 345 - Business and Ethics of Journalism in a Changing World
MND 305 - Reporting
MND 408 - Magazine and News Editing
MND 496 - Digital Portfolio
VIS 207 - Introduction to Graphic Design
Track Requirement
Students will choose to complete one of three tracks: Magazine, News or Digital.
Magazine (9 credits)
Required Courses (6 credits)
MND 406 - Magazine Article Writing
MND 441 - Visual Thinking for Digital Magazines
Newhouse Electives (3 credits)
Any other JNL or MND course at 300-level or above.
OR
News (9 credits)
Required Courses (6 credits)
JNL 530 - Topics in Specialized Reporting
VIS 361 - Visual News Reporting
Newhouse Electives (3 credits)
Any other JNL or MND course at 300-level or above.
OR
Digital (9 credits)
Required Courses (6 credits)
MMI 365 - Web Development & Design for Media
MND 442 - Using Data to Tell Stories
Newhouse Elective List (3 credits)
Any other JNL or MND course at 300-level or above.
Capstone Requirement: Choose One (3 credits)
MND 407 - Narrative Storytelling
MND 409 - Investigative Projects
MND 499 - Thesis
MND 504 - Multimedia Projects
MND 505 - Digital News & Innovation
Grammar Competency Requirement
Students must complete a grammar competency as part of their degree requirements. There are two ways students can satisfy this competency:
First, by passing a grammar competency exam during their first semester on campus. The exam will be given twice - once before the end of the first week of classes and a second time prior to registration the next semester.  A passing grade on the exam will fulfill the competency requirement.
Secondly, by passing COM 101, a 0-credit grammar course which will be mandatory for students who fail the grammar competency exam.  This course can be repeated until a passing grade is earned and the competency is met.
 Students must meet the grammar competency to receive a degree.
Global Experience Requirement
The Global Experience requirement may be fulfilled by studying abroad or taking an approved class. A list of courses that fulfill this requirement can be found in the Newhouse Guide Book. If a student chooses to take a Newhouse class to fulfill this requirement, the additional Newhouse hours will be added to the 122 credits needed for graduation if the student has reached the Newhouse credit maximum.
Total: 42 Newhouse credits required

