Communication Sciences and Disorders BS/Speech Language Pathology MS
Contact:
Kathy Vander Werff, Department Chair
621 Skytop Road, Suite 1200
315-443-9637
Program Description
The Communication Sciences and Disorders, BS/Speech Language Pathology, MS program is designed for students to obtain a B.S. in Communication Sciences and Disorders at the end of their senior year. The B.S. in communication sciences and disorders provides students with a broad education in human communication sciences and disorders. Students will participate in clinical experiences in the Gebbie Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic, and interested students will have the opportunity to participate in research in faculty laboratories.
The M.S. part of the program begins in the summer after the student completes the B.S. program and requires students to complete four graduate semesters (summer, fall, spring, summer). The M.S. program in Speech-Language Pathology at Syracuse University is accredited by the Council on Academic Accreditation in Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology of the American Speech Language-Hearing Association. Graduates of the M.S. program may also fulfill the requirements for New York State teacher certification as a Teacher of Students with Speech and Language Disabilities.
While pursuing the M.S. in Speech-Language Pathology students are prepared for a professional career in diagnosis and management of individuals with speech and language disorders. Students in speech-language pathology participate in a wide range of diagnostic and therapy experiences under the direct supervision of clinical faculty. After obtaining a minimum of 75 hours of on-campus clinical practicum in the department’s Gebbie Speech-Language-Hearing Clinic students are assigned two off-site clinical experiences. These externship placements provide students with experience working in the field under the supervision of a certified speech-language pathologist. Placements include public schools, preschool programs, hospitals, rehabilitation centers, nursing homes, private clinics, and special education programs.
Student Learning Outcomes
B.S. in Communication Sciences & Disorders
1. Explain the processes involved in the acquisition of human (oral/aural) communication
2. Identify the nature of the basic human communication process, including the biological, neurological, acoustic, psychological, developmental, linguistic and cultural bases
3. Demonstrate knowledge of aspects of speech, language and hearing disorders, including: phonology, articulation, language, hearing voice, swallowing and fluency disorders
4. Explain the basic foundations of treatment of communication disorders including prevention, evaluation, and intervention
5. Demonstrate professional writing skills for academic and clinical situations: organization, technical skills, intended audience and purpose
6. Evaluate hypotheses about human communication processes in order to develop critical thinking skills
7.  Identify aspects of human diversity (e.g., age, ethnicity, gender, race, disability) that influence communication and the disorders of communication that individuals may experience.
M.S. in Speech-Language Pathology
1. Apply knowledge of basic human communication and swallowing processes, including the appropriate biological, neurological, acoustic, psychological, developmental, and linguistic and cultural bases across the life span for individuals with and without disorders.
2. Describe communication and swallowing disorders and differences, including the appropriate etiologies, characteristics, anatomical/physiological, acoustic, psychological, developmental, and linguistic and cultural correlates in the following areas: articulation; fluency; voice and resonance, including respiration and phonation; receptive and expressive language (phonology, morphology, syntax, semantics, pragmatics, prelinguistic communication and paralinguistic communication) in speaking, listening, reading, writing; hearing, including the impact on speech and language; swallowing (oral, pharyngeal, esophageal, and related functions, including oral function for feeding, orofacial myology); cognitive aspects of communication (attention, memory, sequencing, problem-solving, executive functioning); social aspects of communication (including challenging behavior, ineffective social skills, and lack of communication opportunities); augmentative and alternative communication modalities.
3. For each of the areas specified in outcome 2, demonstrate current knowledge of the principles and methods of prevention, assessment, and intervention for people with communication and swallowing disorders, including consideration of anatomical/physiological, psychological, developmental, and linguistic and cultural correlates.
4. Demonstrate knowledge of processes used in research and of the integration of research principles into evidence-based clinical practice.
Major Requirements
To declare a major in Communication Sciences & Disorders, students must complete CSD 212 with a grade of B or better.
To be eligible to apply for the combined BS/MS Speech-Language Pathology 5 year program, a student must have an overall GPA of 3.7 after the Fall semester of the third year, and 24 CSD credits earned.
Core Curriculum (85 credits)
Students in the BS/MS program will complete the following undergraduate and graduate CSD courses.
CSD 212 - Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders
CSD 315 - Anatomy and Physiology of the Speech and Hearing Mechanisms
CSD 316 - Introduction to Applied Phonetics
CSD 325 - Fundamentals of Hearing Sciences
CSD 345 - Speech Science
CSD 409 - Cognitive Neuroscience of Speech and Language
CSD 422 - Development of Speech and Language
CSD 427 - Speech and Language Disorders in Children
CSD 429 - Basic Clinical Audiology
CSD 435 - Aural Rehabilitation
CSD 450 - Clinical/Classroom Practicum *
CSD 451 - Clinical Methods in Speech-Language Pathology
CSD 477 - Speech-Language Pathology in School Settings
CSD 600 Counseling Individuals with Communication Disorders and Their Families
CSD 612 Genetics, Cleft Palate and Craniofacial Disorders
CSD 618 Dysphagia
CSD 623 Language Disorders or Early Childhood
CSD 624 Clinical Techniques-Language Disabilities of Early Childhood
CSD 625 Stuttering
CSD 638 Speech Sound Disorders
CSD 646 Augmentative and Alternative Communication Systems
CSD 650 Clinical Classroom Practicum**
CSD 657 Voice Disorders
CSD 659 Introduction to Research in Audiology and Speech Language Pathology
CSD 726 Neurogenic Communication Disorders I
CSD 727 Neurogenic Communication Disorders II
CSD 731 Language Disorders in School-Age Children
CSD 732 Clinical Techniques-Language Disabilities of School-Age Children
EED 640 Participation in the Professional Development School
*CSD 450 is taken 5 times for 1 credit each.
**CSD 650 is taken 5 times for a total of 10 credits.
Non CSD Courses (12-13 credits)
Choose one course from each of the four lists below. Other courses may also meet these requirements, with approval.
Statistics (3 credits)
MAT 121 - Probability and Statistics for the Liberal Arts I
MAT 221 - Elementary Probability and Statistics I
PSY 252 - Statistical Methods II
Physical Science (3-4 credits)
CHE 106 - General Chemistry Lecture I
CHE 107 - General Chemistry Laboratory I
PHY 101 - Major Concepts of Physics I
PHY 211 - General Physics I
Biological Science (3 credits)
BIO 121 - General Biology I
BIO 211 - Introduction to Neuroscience
Behavioral Science (3 credits)
ANT 111 - Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
ANT 121 - Peoples and Cultures of the World
PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior
PSY 209 - Foundations of Human Behavior/ Honors Section
PSY 374 - Social Psychology
PSY 335 - Psychology of Childhood
PSY 336 - Psychology of the Adolescent
PSY 337 - Psychology of Adult Life: Maturity and Old Age
SOC 101 - Introduction to Sociology
SOC 102 - Social Problems
SOC 248 - Racial and Ethnic Inequalities
SOC 281 - Sociology of Families
SOC 364 - Aging and Society
3 Credits of electives, including any of the following combination
Any CSD 600 Selected Topics courses (1 credit each)
CSD 626 - Sociocultural Bases for Communication
CSD 690 - Independent Study (1-3 credits)
CSD 799 - Independent Research in Speech Pathology or Audiology
Non-CSD courses by petition

