Language Skills Requirement
Return to: College of Arts and Sciences 
  Students satisfy the Language Skills option of the Liberal Skills Requirement by demonstrating that they have achieved a certain level of competence in a language other than English by either
completing a 4-credit language course numbered 201, or a 3- or 4-credit language course numbered 202 or higher (see Advanced Language Work under Exemptions and Alternatives); or
satisfying one of the requirements listed under “Exemptions and Alternatives.”
Beginners can complete the language requirement with a sequence of three, 4-credit courses numbered 101, 102, and 201.
Students may not receive credit for a lower-level language course taken after earning a grade in a higher-level course in the same language.
EXEMPTIONS AND ALTERNATIVES
The following options are also available to fulfill the requirement. 
Advanced Placement. Students who score a four in the following examinations thereby demonstrate a competency equivalent to Syracuse University language courses numbered 201 and satisfy the Language Skills Requirement: Chinese Language and Culture; Japanese Language and Culture, Latin, Spanish Literature.
Demonstrated Competence. Students who can show proof of a native or near native competency in a language other than English may seek approval of a petition from the Department of Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics to have their LAC Language Skills requirement fulfilled by virtue of their proficiency.
Advanced Language Work. One may fulfill the requirement by completing with a grade of C or better any 3- or 4-credit course taught in a language other than English numbered 202 or above offered by the Department of Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics.
International Students. Students whose native language is not English may petition to have the language requirement fulfilled by their knowledge of their native language.
Study Abroad. Programs of Syracuse Abroad (SUA) in Chile, France, India, Italy, and Spain offer the same courses that are available on campus for satisfying the language requirement. 
Transfer Credit. Transfer credit for foreign language courses will not be considered for approval until it has been evaluated by the Department of Languages, Literatures, and Linguistics at Syracuse University to determine the appropriate course equivalent. Credit will be considered for acceptance by the College if taken at an accredited institution.

