Professional and Technical Writing Minor
Minor Coordinator
Heather Thompson, Writing Studies Academic Support Coordinator
239 H.B. Crouse
315-443-1047
hethomps@syr.edu
Faculty
Lois Agnew, Patrick W. Berry, Collin Gifford-Brooke, Kevin Adonis Browne, Lenny Grant, Alicia Hatcher, Krista Kennedy, Brice Nordquist, Eileen E. Schell, Tony Scott, Joseph Wilson
The Professional and Technical Writing minor will provide students with documented training in professional and technical writing in digital and scientific contexts.
Description
The minor in Professional and Technical Writing requires 18 credits of coursework: WRT 307 - Advanced Writing Studio: Professional Writing; at least two courses from List A; the balance can be taken from List A or B.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Produce effective documents for business, health care, nonprofit, government, technical, or scientific professions in local, national, or global contexts
2. Rhetorically analyze professional audiences and effective persuasion practices
3. Learn, analyze, and apply the ethics of professional and technical communication across professions, including accessibility and inclusivity
4. Produce rhetorically astute work in multiple modalities
Gateway Course
WRT 307 - Advanced Writing Studio: Professional Writing
List A
WRT 417 - Technical Documentation & Usability
WRT 419 - Advanced Technical Writing Workshop
WRT 427 - Emerging Technologies in Professional & Technical Writing
WRT 437 - Rhetoric and Information Design
WRT 447 - Professional & Technical Writing in Global Contexts
List B
WRT 301 - Advanced Writing Studio: Civic Writing
WRT 302 - Advanced Writing Studio: Digital Writing
WRT 308 - Advanced Writing Studio: Style
CRS 336 - Communication and Organizational Diversity
WRT 340 - Advanced Editing Studio
CRS 325 - Presentational Speaking
CRS 338 - Communication in Organizations
CRS 430 - Intercultural Communication
Declaring a PTW minor
To declare a Writing minor, students should complete the Declaration of Minor form and either email it to writing@syr.edu or bring the form to the Writing Department office (239 HBC Hall) for the signature of the minor coordinator. A copy of the form must be filed with the student’s home college.

