4+1 A&S/Newhouse Combined Degree
Arts & Sciences Contact: 
Office of Advising and Career Services
The College of Arts and Sciences
342 Hall of Language
315-443-3150
casadvising@syr.edu
This 5-year program combines two existing programs - the Bachelor’s degree in the College of Arts and Sciences, and in the Maxwell School of Citizenship and Public Affairs - together with the MA or MS degree in the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications.
Admission Requirements
Students considering this program are strongly encouraged to speak to an Academic Advisor in the Hall of Languages as soon as possible upon entering Syracuse University. Completing the program in 5 years requires careful planning.
To be eligible for admission to the program students must be admitted to Arts and Sciences or Maxwell according to the normal procedure. The decision on whether to admit the student into Newhouse will be based primarily on the student’s undergraduate academic record.
Admission requirements for Newhouse: 
3.25 GPA after completing 60 credit hours of coursework in A&S/Maxwell.
Newhouse Contact:
Joel Kaplan
Associate Dean for Graduate Program
S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications
330 Newhouse 2
315-443-1429
jkkaplan@syr.edu
Program Requirements
Students in this program will complete all the requirements for a Bachelor’s degree, as well as for the Master’s degree from Newhouse in 5 years. Students will receive both degrees, receiving the Bachelor’s after four years, and the Master’s after the fifth year. Courses required for each of the available Master’s degree programs are provided below.
4+1 Combined Requirements
The crossover courses for the 4+1 combined degree are as follows:
Advertising, MA (ADV)
Fall of year 4: ADV 612 Strategic Brain: Account Planning and Research
Fall of year 4: COM 697 Advertising & Public Relations Law
Arts Journalism and Communications, MA (AJC)
Fall of year 4: COM 697 Advertising and Public Relations Law or COM 698 Media Law
Spring of year 4: 3 credits of graduate level work can be taken in Newhouse, Architecture, Film, Fine Arts, Music or Theater with approval from the students’ academic advisor and the Newhouse Graduate Advising Office.
Broadcast and Digital Journalism, MS (BDJ)
Fall of year 4: COM 647 Applied Media Research or COM 698 Media Law
Spring of year 4: Whichever COM course was not taken in the fall semester
Magazine, News and Digital Journalism, MS (MND)
Fall of year 4: MND 616 Applied Research for Magazine, News and Digital Journalism
Spring of year 4: COM 698 Media Law
Media Studies, MA
Fall of year 4: Newhouse law course (COM 697 Advertising and Public Relations Law, COM 698 Media Law, or TRF 637 Telecommunications Law & Policy)
Spring of year 4: Newhouse elective. (Elective courses will be selected in consultation with the student’s advisor and the Newhouse Graduate Records Office. Courses will be relevant to the student’s planned course of study. Courses may include those offered in Newhouse, or elsewhere in the University. This can include an internship).
Multimedia, Photography and Design, MS
Fall of year 4: 3 one credit modules of VIS 602 Essentials for Visual Communicatiors: Advanced Productivity, Writing, and Design or Photography
Spring of year 4: COM 698 Media Law
Advanced Media Management, MS
Fall of year 4: MMI 606 Content Management, Development and Innovation
Spring of year 4: Approved Newhouse or Whitman elective chosen with academic advisor/Newhouse Graduate Advising Office approval
Public Relations, MS
Fall of year 4: COM 697 Advertising and Public Relations Law
Spring of year 4: Integrated & Digital Communications Elective (Select from an approved list of courses in analytics, digital strategies and IMC courses from Newhouse or Whitman.)
Television, Radio and Film, MA
Fall of year 4: TRF 696 Research for Entertainment Media
Spring of year 4: TRF 637 Telecommunications Law and Policy

