Fashion Design, BFA
Contact
Jeffrey Mayer, Program Coordinator
The Nancy Cantor Warehouse, jcmayer@syr.edu
Faculty
Todd Conover, Dee Densmore, Jeffrey Mayer, Kirsten Schoonmaker, Charquetta “ChaCha” Nicole Hudson
Description
The curriculum of the B.F.A. degree program in Fashion Design includes the basic skills of construction, flat pattern, draping, and presentation, all with an emphasis on design. Important related topics include textiles, fashion drawing, fashion marketing, and computer-assisted design. Students learn to develop their ideas on paper, then translate them through pattern skills into three-dimensional forms and, finally, into finished designs. Academic requirements and electives balance studio and didactic courses each semester.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Demonstrate appropriate and advanced apparel construction skills using industry specific machinery
2. Apply skills to visually translate detailed apparel design concepts, materiality, color and fit through two dimensional fashion sketching and illustration
3. Develop well proportioned, balanced and competently fit industry standard apparel patterns by using both two and three-dimensional approaches
4. Demonstrate the use of appropriate material and color choices as it applies to the apparel design collection within its cyclical and seasonal relationship to consumer buying and use habits
5. Demonstrate a visual and theoretical understanding of fashion, art and design history and their relationships to the cultural context and social implications within their periods
6. Research, gather, analyze and develop apparel collection concepts from a variety of base source materials and translate these findings two dimensionally in the form of unique apparel collections
Program Requirements
Major Requirements: 54 credits
DES 101 - Digital Tools for Designers I
DES 102 - Digital Tools for Designers II
DES 103 - Analog Design Tools
DES 267 - Textiles for Designers
FAS 104 - Fundamentals of Fashion Design
FAS 120 - Fashion Skills and Techniques I
FAS 121 - Fashion Skills and Techniques II
FAS 222 - Fashion Skills and Techniques III
FAS 223 - Fashion Skills and Techniques IV
FAS 231 - Fashion Design Studio I
FAS 232 - Fashion Design Studio II
FAS 301 - Digital Presentation for Fashion Design
FAS 322 - Fashion Design: Tailoring
FAS 323 - Fashion Design: Accessory Design
FAS 332 - Fashion Design Studio III
FAS 333 - Fashion Design Studio IV
FAS 422 - Fashion Design: Senior Collection I
FAS 423 - Fashion Design: Senior Collection II
Art History Requirements: 12 credits
DES 113 - History of Modern Design: 1850-Present
DES 114 - Design, Cultural Traditions and the Environment
FAS 335 - History of Fashion Design I: Origins and Revivals
FAS 336 - History of Fashion Design II: Contemporary Trends
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Liberal Arts Electives (12 credits)/Academic Electives (8 credits)*
Academic electives are most courses offered outside of art, design, or transmedia (for example, courses offered in CRS, Arts and Sciences, Whitman, and other colleges outside of VPA). These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, and entrepreneurship, and languages at the 100-level, among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here.
*The required 20 credits should consist of Liberal Arts & Sciences Electives (12 credits), and Academic Electives (8 credits).
Studio Electives: 27 credits
Six credits must be in TXT courses:
Studio electives are courses usually offered in VPA through art, design, or transmedia.  The content of the courses directly relates to the preparation of students for professional careers in art, design, and transmedia. The course content includes, but is not limited to, conceptualization, process, product, and critique of creative work in studio practice. These courses meet for a much longer time, for a minimum of four hours per week for the duration of the semester. Usual meeting patterns are: the class meets once per week for four+ hours, or the class meets twice per week, usually for two or more hours each. You can find a comprehensive list of courses that count as studio electives here.
Study Abroad
The fashion design program has connections with the London College of Fashion. Students may apply, and pending a successful application and meeting program requirements, spend a semester abroad in this program during their junior year. Please refer to the SUAbroad website for eligibility and application criteria.
Total Credits Required: 120
Degree Awarded: BFA in Fashion Design

