Music Industry, BMus
Contact
Todd Herreman, Program Coordinator,
Department of Music Industry and Technologies
124D Crouse College, 315-443-6155, 
stherrem@syr.edu
Faculty
Gregg Barron, Todd Herreman, James Abbott, James Elenteny
Description
The B.Mus. music industry program prepares students to be competent musicians, and to comprehend, understand and analyze the rapidly changing advances in the industry. Students study and discuss the implications of current trends as they become familiar with the realities of general business and the creative and legal practices of the music business. In classes and through guest lectures and mentoring by leading industry professionals, students learn about professional organizations and their role in the industry.
The program also provides students with unprecedented opportunities to continue their education and broaden their skills and portfolio with graduate degree programs. In partnership with the Whitman School of Management, Setnor now offers the MUI/MBA 5-year dual degree program where B.Mus. music industry students who qualify can stay a 5th year and achieve an MBA. For students who have an interest in arts administration and non-profit music management students can enter into the M.A. in Arts Leadership program. There are also graduate programs in music performance and an M.S. certification in music education.
Student Learning Outcomes
Principal Performance Area (Lower Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level.
b. perform a cross-section of repertoire.

Secondary Performance Area/Keyboard Competency (Lower Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate functional keyboard skills to support musicianship at the appropriate level.

Harmony & Analysis (Lower Division Sequence):
a. identify/describe common elements and organizational patterns of music and their aural and verbal analysis.
b. identify/describe musical forms, processes, and structures.

Aural Skills & Analysis (Lower Division Sequence):
a. produce and recognize music at the appropriate level.

Ensemble Performance (Lower Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate artistry and technical skills in an ensemble setting.
b. demonstrate collaborative competency and knowledge of the ensemble’s repertoire.

History & Repertoire (Lower Division Sequence):
a. describe music history and identify repertoire through the present time, including the study and experience of musical languages and cultures.

Principal Performance Area (Upper Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level.
b. perform a cross-section of repertoire.

Ensemble Performance (Upper Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate artistry and technical skills in an ensemble setting.
b. demonstrate collaborative competency and knowledge of the ensemble’s repertoire.

Music Conducting (Upper Division Sequence):
a. work as a leader, and in collaboration, on matters of musical interpretation.

Revenue Stream Research:
a.  understand all forms of monetization as they apply to the music industry.”

Recording Student Learning Outcomes:
a. solve technical and artistic problems while preparing recorded products for various purposes/settings.
b. use recording equipment in applicable recording situations.”
  “Music Industry Business Plan Development:
a.  produce a formal business plan strategy based on current music industry research.”

Music Industry Business Plan Development:
a.  produce a formal business plan strategy based on current music industry research.
  Program Requirements
Students are required to achieve 2 credits of music industry practicum (internships). There are opportunities in the immediate campus area during the academic year and numerous opportunities with high-profile music industry businesses in major metropolitan areas such as New York City.
Music Requirements: 38 credits
PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE AREA  (16 credits)
SECONDARY PERFORMANCE AREA  (4 credits)

(Keyboard Skills Unless Piano or Organ Student)
MTC 145 - Diatonic Harmony I
MTC 146 - Diatonic Harmony II
MTC 147 - Ear Training I
MTC 148 - Ear Training II
MTC 245 - Chromatic Harmony I
MTC 246 - Chromatic Harmony II
MTC 247 - Ear Training III
MTC 248 - Ear Training IV
CTG 545 - Basic Conducting
Music History and Literature: 9 credits
MHL 185 - Introduction to World Music
MHL 267 - European Music before 1800
MHL 268 - European and American Music Since 1800
Large Ensembles: 7 credits


One Large Ensemble Required for Each Semester in Residence

Final semester is taken for 0 credit

Weekly Student Convocations: 0 credits


Required for Each Semester in Residence

Music Electives: 6 credits
Music Industry Requirements: 30 credits
MUI 205 - Music Industry I
MUI 206 - Music Industry II
MUI 305 - Music Industry Marketing and Media
MUI 307 - Studio Recording
MUI 310 - Soyars Leadership Lecture Series (x8) 1 credit each
 MUI 308 - Live Sound and Concert Recording or
MUI 409 - Advanced Digital Audio Workstation Production
 MUI 402 - Current State of the Music Industry
MUI 405 - Music Industry Law and Ethics
MUI 408 - Music Industry Practicum 2 credits total
Academic Core Requirements: 22 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior
SOC 101 - Introduction to Sociology
ECN 203 - Economic Ideas and Issues
MAR 301 - Essentials of Marketing
MGT 355 - Strategic Human Resource Management
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
Academic Electives: 8 credits


Must Include at Least One 3-Credit IDEA Elective

Study Abroad
During their academic career, industry students have the opportunity to study abroad in London and Strasbourg or spend a semester interning and taking classes in L.A.
Total Credits Required: 120
Degree Awarded: BM Music Industry

