Sound Recording Technology, BMus
Contact
James Abbott, Program Coordinator, Sound Recording Technology
406 Crouse College, 315-443-4107, jsabbott@syr.edu
Faculty
James Abbott, James Elentney, Kevin Muldoon, Thomas James
Description
The sound recording technology program provides technologically inclined musicians with the practical and theoretical background needed for success in today’s music production industry. The program provides a multidisciplinary four-year Bachelor of Music degree with coursework in music, acoustics, sound production, new media design, computer science, and mathematics. Particular emphasis is placed on audio engineering as a technical-artistic field, recognizing that audio professionals often serve as the interface connecting the technical and artistic personnel in the music industry.
The program provides extensive project experience in state-of-the art studios where students record, produce, mix, and master sound recordings. Students also develop technical and managerial skills that are essential to the profession. A high level of cross-disciplinary collaboration is encouraged, with exposure to production techniques for many musical styles and media deliverables. Students graduate with a portfolio of work that includes classical, world, popular, and jazz styles delivered on traditional formats alongside new industry standards such as web-based media and video games.
Possible careers include work as a recording engineer, producer, programmer, musician, and technical engineer. The program also provides a foundation for graduate work in engineering and computer science.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Demonstrate skills for functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level and demonstrate the ability to perform a cross-section of repertoire.
2. Demonstrate functional keyboard skills to support musicianship at the appropriate level.
3. Demonstrate an understanding of the common elements and organizational patterns of music and their aural and verbal analysis and a functional understanding of musical forms, processes, and structures.
4. Demonstrate the ability to complete aural dictation at the appropriate level.
5. Demonstrate growth in artistry and technical skills in an ensemble setting and collaborative competency and knowledge of ensemble repertoire.
6. Demonstrate a functional knowledge of music history and repertoire through the present time, including the study and experience of musical languages and cultures.
7. Demonstrate knowledge and skills sufficient to work as a leader, and in collaboration, on matters of musical interpretation.
8. Demonstrate ability to solve technical and artistic problems while preparing recorded products for various purposes/settings and fundamental knowledge of recording equipment and their proper use in applicable recording situations.
9. Demonstrate the application of acoustical knowledge, the related scientific aspects of sound, and electrical manipulation of sounds in applicable recording situations and acquired aural skills while making accurate and viable decisions associated with the proper application and use of recording equipment in applicable situations.
10. Demonstrate ability to solve technical and artistic problems while preparing recorded products for various purposes/settings.
11. Demonstrate the ability to develop professional-quality recordings from concept, to technical production and artistic process, to finished product.
Program Requirements
Music Requirements: 38 credits

PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE AREA:  16 credits
SECONDARY PERFORMANCE AREA:  4 credits
(Keyboard Skills Unless Piano or Organ Student)

MTC 145 - Diatonic Harmony I
MTC 146 - Diatonic Harmony II
MTC 147 - Ear Training I
MTC 148 - Ear Training II
MTC 245 - Chromatic Harmony I
MTC 246 - Chromatic Harmony II
MTC 247 - Ear Training III
MTC 248 - Ear Training IV
CTG 545 - Basic Conducting
Music History and Literature: 9 credits
MHL 185 - Introduction to World Music
MHL 267 - European Music before 1800
MHL 268 - European and American Music Since 1800
Large Ensembles: 7 credits

One Large Ensemble Required for Each Semester in Residence
Final semester is taken for 0 credit
Weekly Student Convocations: 0 credits

Required for Each Semester in Residence
Sound Recording Technology Requirements: 38 credits
MUI 010 - Soyars Entertainment Leadership Lecture Series I 7 X for 0 credit
MUI 209 - Music Industry for Audio Engineers
MUI 301 - Record Production
MUI 307 - Studio Recording
MUI 308 - Live Sound and Concert Recording
MUI 309 - Studio Acoustics
MUI 321 - Concert Recording I
MUI 322 - Concert Recording II
MUI 331 - Music Mastering
MUI 408 - Music Industry Practicum 1 credit
MUI 409 - Advanced Digital Audio Workstation Production
MUI 411 - Recording Studio Management I
MUI 412 - Recording Studio Management II
MUI 414 - Music Technology Practicum
MTC 560 - Electronic Music Composition
MTC 562 - Performing with Computers
Academic Requirements: 21 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
CPS 196 - Introduction to Computer Programming
MAT 295 - Calculus I
PHY 211 - General Physics I
PHY 221 - General Physics Laboratory I
PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
Academic Electives: 9 credits

Must Include at Least One 3-Credit IDEA Elective
Total Credits Required: 122
Degree Awarded: BM Sound Recording Technology

