Social Work, BS
Contact
Nadaya Brantley, Undergraduate Program Director
School of Social Work
244F White Hall
315-443-9923
  subssw@syr.edu
Description
The undergraduate professional social work program offers a 120 credit Bachelor of Science degree. The goals of this program, in order of priority, are as follows:
To prepare undergraduate students for competent and effective generalist professional practice by developing the requisite social work knowledge, values, and skills, and
To prepare undergraduate students for continuing professional education and/or graduate education.
The social work program is based on the concept of ecological systems, which maintains that the fundamental focus of social work practice is on the transactions of people and their environments, and on the constant state of reciprocity in which each shapes the other. Social work intervention aims to promote the progressive forces and minimize the regressive forces in those transactions. The curriculum incorporates instruction in five professional foundation areas: social welfare policy and services, human behavior in the social environment, research, social work practice, and field practicum. Instruction in these areas builds upon a carefully chosen and strong behavioral sciences, and the natural sciences taken within the College of Arts and Sciences.
  The program is accredited by the Council on Social Work Education.
Intra-University Transfer
Social Work, BBSSW, Intra-University Transfer (IUT) Process
Deadlines for applying: November 15 (Spring Entry) and April 15 (Fall Entry)
Students who meet the following criteria will be considered (on a space available basis) for intra- university transfer and/or declaration of major in social work:
Students with a cumulative GPA of 2.8 or higher, who are in good standing at the university and who have expressed an interest in pursuing the social work profession will be considered for transfer to the major.
Students with cumulative GPAs of 2.5 - 2.79 will be considered based on factors influencing the GPA and grades of B or better in social work courses previously completed.
Students must have completed a minimum of 12 credit hours at Syracuse University.
Students must have a minimum of four (4) semesters of study remaining at the university to complete the social work degree within a four-year time frame.
Students must complete and submit an SWK Intra-University Transfer Interest Form
After submission of the interest form, students will be contacted to schedule a meeting with the Baccalaureate Social Work (BSSW) Program Director to discuss their interest in the major and to develop a plan for degree completion prior to being formally accepted.
Please visit the social work webpage for additional information.
Study Abroad
SU-Abroad sponsors study opportunities in England, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Spain, Chile, Australia, and Hong Kong. with careful planning, students can satisfy other degree requirements while developing sensitivity to cultural differences through these programs.
  For social work students, the general plan for study abroad involves taking some core courses normally taken during Junior year during the sophomore year (for those students planning to travel abroad during Junior year).
  The time abroad is usually used for humanities courses (e.g. English, history, fine arts, or other site-specific opportunities) or electives. To ensure graduating on schedule, it is essential for students to carefully plan for the entire four-year experience so that everything will fit as needed.
Note
Experience Credit - Students may earn elective academic credit for volunteer or paid work experience in social service agencies that occurs while they are enrolled in the baccalaureate social work program.
Learning contracts must be made for that experience before engaging in the experience and usually involve an agreement between the student, a supervising agency staff member, and an appropriate faculty member. Registration forms for Experience Credit are available in the program director’s office. Experience credit cannot take the place of a student’s senior field practicum. Academic credit is not awarded for life or work experience achieved prior to matriculation in the program. For more information, contact the Social Work Undergraduate Program Director.
Student Learning Outcomes
 1. Demonstrate Ethical and Professional Behavior
2. Engage Diversity and Difference in Practice
3. Advance Human Rights and Social, Economic, and Environmental Justice
4. Engage in Practice Informed-Research and Research-Informed Practice
5. Engage in Policy Practice
6. Engage with Individuals, Families, Groups, Organizations, and Community
7. Assess Individuals, Families, Groups, Organizations, and Community
8. Intervene with Individuals, Families, Groups, Organizations, and Community
9. Evaluate Practice with Individuals, Families, Groups, Organizations, and Community
University Requirement
In addition to FYS 101, the BS in Social Work requires completion of an IDEA course (chosen from a select list) - The IDEA course may count as a liberal arts, departmental course, or elective depending on the course chosen. Please see the undergraduate course catalog for a full listing of IDEA courses.
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
Major Requirements (42 credits)
SWK 201 - Social Work Practice Skills Laboratory I
SWK 202 - Social Work Practice Skills Laboratory II
SWK 301 - Foundations of Social Work Practice
SWK 314 - Social Welfare Policy and Services I
SWK 315 - Social Welfare Policy and Services II
SWK 326 - Persons in Social Context
SWK 328 - Human Diversity in Social Contexts
SWK 361 - Foundations of Social Work Research
SWK 401 - Strategies of Social Work Intervention I
SWK 402 - Strategies of Social Work Intervention II
SWK 435 - Field Practicum I
SWK 436 - Field Seminar I
SWK 445 - Field Practicum II
SWK 446 - Field Seminar II
Liberal Skills Requirements (12-14 credits)
Expository writing 6-9

Mathematics 6-8
Note:
The statistics requirement for social work students may be satisfied by taking MAT 121/MAT 122 or MAT 221/MAT 222/PSY 252 as a liberal skills requirement.
Humanities Divisional Perspectives (12 credits)
Social work students must complete 12 credits in the humanities divisional perspective defined in the liberal arts core of the College of Arts and Sciences. More detail is offered in the publication, “Liberal Arts Core.”
Natural Sciences Divisional Perspective (7 credits)
Required
BIO 121 - General Biology I
Choose one of the following:
ANT 131 - Introduction to Biological Anthropology
BIO 123 - General Biology II
PSY 223 - Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience
PSY 315 - Drugs and Human Behavior
PSY 395 - Abnormal Psychology
NSD 225 - Nutrition in Health
Social Sciences Divisional Perspective (24 credits)
AAS 112 - Introduction to African American Studies or
ANT 121 - Peoples and Cultures of the World
 ECN 203 - Economic Ideas and Issues or
ECN 258 - Poverty and Discrimination in America
 PSC 121 - American National Government and Politics or
PSC 122 - American State and Local Government and Politics
 PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior or
PSY 374 - Social Psychology
 PSY 335 - Psychology of Childhood or
PSY 336 - Psychology of the Adolescent or
HFS 202 - Development of Children
 PSY 337 - Psychology of Adult Life: Maturity and Old Age or
SWK 357 - Processes of Aging or
HFS 363 - Midlife Development and Gerontology
 SOC 101 - Introduction to Sociology or
SOC 102 - Social Problems
Electives to reach 120 degree applicable credits
Specific advising guidelines for selecting and sequencing required, and elective courses are available from the School of Social Work.

