History, BA
Contact:
The History Department Office
145 Eggers Hall
315-443-2210 
history@syr.edu
Faculty
Alan Allport, Susan Branson, Brian Brege, Craige B. Champion, Omar Cheta, Andrew W. Cohen, Albrecht Diem, Michael R. Ebner, Carol Faulkner, Jeffrey Gonda, Paul M. Hagenloh, Samantha Kahn Herrick, Denisa Jashari, Amy Kallander, George Kallander, Osamah F. Khalil, Radha Kumar, Norman A. Kutcher, Chris Kyle, Elisabeth D. Lasch-Quinn, Aaron Luedtke, Gladys McCormick, Tessa Murphy, Mark G. Schmeller, Martin S. Shanguhyia, Junko Takeda, Robert Terrell, Margaret Susan Thompson
An understanding of the past is essential to shaping the present and future. History majors and minors are asked not to memorize facts, but to develop the reading, writing and research skills necessary to understand the past and face the future. The undergraduate program leading to a B.A. in history provides rigorous training in research, analysis, and writing. Because students of history learn to evaluate evidence, write well, and think clearly, the history major is excellent training for almost any career.
Students majoring in history are encouraged to take a foreign language.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Students will analyze and synthesize historical knowledge across different regions and diverse, global contexts. They will reflect on the dynamic relationships between ideas, power, identities, socio-political structures, place and environment
2. Students will be able to identify and discuss debates among historians within their fields of specialization, with sensitivity to matters of diversity and inclusion
3. Students will learn to organize and express their thoughts clearly and effectively orally and in writing
4. Students will deploy historical skills and knowledge to conceptualize and write a major research paper using primary and secondary sources
5. Students will master the effective use of libraries, archives, and / or databases in order to complete original historical research
Major Requirements
The major requires 30 credits in history, 21 of which must be upper-division courses (numbered 300 or higher). Students are required to take one of the following lower-division, two-course foundation sequences:
HST 101 - American History to 1865 and
HST 102 - American History Since 1865
 HST 111 - Early Modern Europe, 1350-1815 and
HST 112 - Modern Europe: Napoleon to the Present
 HST 121 - Global History to 1750 and
HST 122 - Global History 1750 to Present
 HST 210 - The Ancient World and
HST 211 - Medieval and Renaissance Europe
Division Requirements
Students must take 6 credits in pre-modern history (3 credits in lower division, 3 credits in upper-division), and 6 credits in modern history (3 credits in lower-division, 3 credits in upper-division).
Upper-division Credits
Of the 21 upper-division credits, 3 must be in HST 301 - Practicum, and 3 must be in HST 401 - Senior Seminar.
Distribution requirement
The history department divides its course offerings into three broad geographic categories: U.S., European, and Global. Students must take at least 3 credits (1 course) in each of these three areas.
Concentration requirement
Each student must complete a concentration, consisting of 15 credits (5 courses), in one of the three distribution areas. Lower division survey courses and HST 401 can count toward this total. It is strongly encouraged, but not required, that both the lower division sequence and  HST 401 fall within the student’s area of concentration.

