Social Studies Education (Dual), BA
Contacts
For Intra-University Transfers:
Arts and Sciences: Advising and Academic Support Office, 323 Hall of Languages, 315-443-3150, casadvising@syr.edu
School of Education: Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230; 315-443-9319, soeadvising@syr.edu
Program Contact:
Jeffery Mangram, 150 Huntington Hall, 315-443-2685, or jamangra@syr.edu 
  Social studies educators play a critical role in society. They are charged with educating and enlightening society’s youngest citizens and expanding the classroom to every corner of the world.
The Social Studies Education program at Syracuse University is a dual program between the School of Education and the College of Arts and Sciences, in which students earn one major from each school/college.  Students will complete a social science major of their choice, including African American studies, anthropology, economics, geography, history, international relations, political science, policy studies, or sociology.  In Social Studies Education courses, students learn how to address all learners’ needs in a changing and diverse society, with particular emphasis on participatory democracy and standards-based assessment.
Students earn a B.A. degree with two majors in their chosen social science and Social Studies Education, and complete courses in three major areas:
Liberal Arts Core and electives
Social science major and other social science courses in the College of Arts and Sciences
Professional education courses (including student teaching)
When planning their sequence of courses, students should keep in mind that at least 9 credits of education including student teaching are required in the fall of the senior year in order to meet the prerequisites for the spring student teaching experience. As many content (social science major) courses as possible should be completed by the end of the junior year.
A total of  127 credits is required. Some students may need to complete total program credits that are slightly greater than 127. The program meets the academic requirements for New York State initial certification to teach Social Studies to grades 7-12. Successful completion of certification examinations, an application and a background check are also required for New York State teacher certification.
Students seeking one of the following majors in English, Mathematics, Science Education Biology, Science Education Chemistry, Science Education Earth Science, Science Education Physics, Social Studies Education, and Spanish Education) while dually enrolled in the School of Education and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 124-127 credits, including the Liberal Arts Core requirements, with some specified courses in the content area to be taught.
Admissions
A minimum of a 3.0 grade point average is required for admission to the College of Arts and Sciences and School of Education dual enrollment program. GPA requirements for admission to the candidacy and standard student teaching semesters, and other prerequisites to these semesters, are mentioned below. Intra-University transfer to the School of Education is coordinated through the Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230, and a course sequencing plan must be completed with an advisor at the time of application.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Acquire knowledge of each student, and demonstrate knowledge of student development and learning to promote achievement for all students
2. Know the content they are responsible for teaching, and plan instruction that ensures growth and achievement for all students
3. Implement instruction that engages and challenges all students to meet or exceed the learning standards
4. Work with all students to create a dynamic learning environment that supports achievement and growth
5. Use multiple measures to assess and document student growth, evaluate instructional effectiveness, and modify instruction
6. Demonstrate professional responsibility and engage relevant stakeholders to maximize student growth, development, and learning
7. Set informed goals and strive for continuous professional growth
Program Requirements
Liberal Arts Requirements
Within the Liberal Arts Core, major, and/or electives, Social Studies Education majors must complete:
One mathematics (MAT) course from Liberal Arts Core Quantitative Skills List (3 credits)
One arts-related course within Arts and Sciences (History of Art (HOA) or History of Music (HOM), or other approved humanities course focusing on one or more of the arts) (3 credits)
One humanities course, other than arts-related or HST (3 credits)
One course (minimum 3 credits) in a language other than English, or equivalent competency established by examination or successful completion of level three of high school study
Social Studies Content
Social Studies Education majors are required to complete a major in an area chosen from African American studies, anthropology, economics, geography, history, international relations, political science, policy studies, or sociology.
Most students choose the history major, as 18 credits of history are required for all Social Studies Education majors, regardless of selected social science major. These courses are:
Two lower-division sequences chosen from the following three sequence options (12 credits):
HST 101 - American History to 1865 and
HST 102 - American History Since 1865
HST 111 - Early Modern Europe, 1350-1815 and
HST 112 - Modern Europe: Napoleon to the Present
HST 121 - Global History to 1750 and
HST 122 - Global History 1750 to Present
One upper division (300 level or above) American, European or  global history course, whichever was not completed through the two lower division sequences above (3 credits)
One upper-division history (300-level or above) by advisement (3 credits)
If a student chooses to major in African American Studies, anthropology, or geography, all courses other than those specified by the department must be social science classes. 
All Social Studies Education majors must also complete courses in the below social sciences.  These courses may overlap with other requirements for the major.
Economics (ECN)
Political science (PSC) applicable to the United States
An approved human/cultural geography course (GEO)
An approved “global” course from GEO 171, GEO 272, ANT 111, ANT 121, or ANT 185.
Finally, all majors must complete EDU 522 - Social Studies and Democracy: The Reconstruction of Education and three other approved social science research methods and/or theory-based courses.
Research course options include HST 401; statistics courses (e.g., MAT 121, MAT 221); SOC 318, SOC 319; ANT 481, ANT 482, and ANT 484; PSC 202; and others. 
Theory-based courses include ANT 311; SOC 406; PHI 575; PSC 125.
Professional Education Courses
The professional sequence includes coursework, field experience and student teaching, and requirements other than coursework, described below.
The Professional Core Requires:
EDU 204 - Principles of Learning in Inclusive Classrooms
EDU 304 - Study of Teaching
EDU 310 - The American School
RED 326 - Literacy Across the Curriculum
EDU 366 - Safe and Healthy Learning Environments
Special Notes:
EDU 304 and RED 326 should be taken after EDU 204; EDU 204 may be taken as early as the second semester of first year; All must be taken before the first professional semester. 
EDU 310 may be taken before, or after (extra semester) professional semesters.
EDU 366 or the equivalent Child Health and Life Safety Workshops and DASA training must be completed before the candidacy student teaching semester.
Candidacy Semester (fall of the senior year)
Note: The candidacy and standard student teaching semesters of registration listed are for students completing the program in four years. Others would adjust accordingly, with the two semesters as late in the program as possible. However, the candidacy semester must be completed in a fall semester.
Prerequisites: enrollment in the program; development of an acceptable professional portfolio (reviewed prior to the candidacy semester); a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA, and 3.0 in required education and in content (social science) courses; completion of EDU 204, EDU 304, EDU 366, RED 326; completion of all social science content courses planned for pre-candidacy semesters; and appropriate progress toward meeting all of the program assessment proficiencies and dispositions
SED 413 - Methods and Curriculum in Teaching
SPE 412 - Adapting Instruction for Diverse Student Needs
EDU 508 - Student Teaching
Standard Student Teaching Semester (spring of senior year)
Prerequisites: Successful completion of the candidacy semester and acceptable professional portfolio; completion of the required amount of credits in the content area; grade point averages at or above the minimums stated above; successful review of all appropriate student assessment proficiencies and dispositions.
EDU 508 - Student Teaching/Social Studies (9 credits required)
SED 416 - Assessment & Data-Driven Instruction/Social Studies
Special Notes: Because this student teaching placement is a full-time, multi-week experience, no other daytime courses can be taken, and it is not advisable to plan more than 12 total credits in this semester, unless approved by an advisor.

