Accounting, BS
Contact:
Office of Undergraduate Programs, 215 Whitman School of Management, 315-443-2361.
Faculty
Susan Albring, Kofi Appiah Okyere, Michael Chin, Joseph Comprix, David Harris, Lihong Liang, MaryAnn Monforte, Craig Nichols, John Petosa, Willie Reddic, Alex Thevaranjan, Sebastian Tideman, Ginger Wagner, Joyce Zadzilka
The major programs in accounting provide students with the academic training and experience needed to become professional accountants. Job opportunities include careers in public accounting, business and industry, not-for-profit organizations, and government. The Accounting program is designed for students who plan to enter public accounting or other professional accounting fields. The General Accounting program is appropriate for individuals who plan to enter other areas of accounting or to complement other programs of study.
Student Learning Outcomes
In addition to the comprehensive learning outcomes listed in the Whitman School’s Undergraduate Education description, students in this major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcomes:
1. Prepare corporate financial statements. Identify and apply all steps of the accounting cycle
2. Research financial accounting, auditing, and tax issues to develop appropriate recommendations and conclusions
Major Requirements
Accounting Program
The professional program is designed to help students meet New York State educational requirements for CPA licensure. The CPA license is granted after passing the Uniform CPA examination and meeting professional experience requirements. After August 1, 2009, New York State will require 150 hours of education for CPA licensure. Most other states currently require 150 hours of education for CPA licensure. Students seeking CPA licensure and planning to sit for the Uniform CPA Examination should meet with an advisor to discuss the education requirements for the state in which they seek licensure.
The professional program requires the following courses
Junior Year
ACC 356 - Intermediate Financial Accounting I
ACC 357 - Intermediate Financial Accounting II
ACC 363 - Cost Analysis & Control
ACC 385 - Principles of Taxation
Senior Year
ACC 476 - Auditing Theory/Practice
ACC 477 - Advanced Financial Accounting
LPP 457 - Law of Commercial Transactions

