Knowledge Management Minor
Contact:
Associate Dean:
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Program Director:
Steve Wallace, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, swalla02@syr.edu
  Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Description:
The minor in Knowledge Management is the cross section between data science, computer science and people.  Knowledge management encompasses the process of applying a systematic approach to the capture, structuring, management, and dissemination of knowledge throughout an organization.  Knowledge resources exist in the people, processes, and technology of organizations and are often lost as individuals depart.  Capturing these resources into a formal and reusable construct allows organizations to focus on growth and innovation through sharing and applying of knowledge while remembering and documenting lessons learned creating an organizational memory. The minor is administered by The College of Professional Studies and is open to all Syracuse University undergraduate students in good standing and the approval of their home college.
This minor requires completion of 18 credits.
To Declare a College of Professional Studies Minor
Check with your home school or college to make sure you have room in your program for the required 18 credits of coursework and that you are in good academic standing.
Map out the minor with your academic advisor to ensure you have room within your schedule to complete these 18 credits prior to your anticipated graduation date.
Complete the Declaration of Minor form and return it via email to profstudiesminors@syr.edu
The minor coordinator will sign and return the form to you.
Take the signed form to your home school or college for processing. 
Student Learning Outcomes
1.      Explain the role of technology, its use as a resource tool in organizations and society, social media, data mining/security.
2.      Apply knowledge gained in program to make sense of the amount of data available, systematically problem-solve and be able to propose creative/design-thinking solutions.
3.      Develop tasks and work processes for desired organizational outcomes, ability to work face-to-face or virtually, and to critically and ethically analyze big data.
Required: 18 Credits
Courses
KNM 301 - Introduction to Knowledge Management
KNM 401 - Professional Issues in Knowledge Management
KNM 311 - Safeguarding Knowledge Management and Codification Data
KNM 310 - Knowledge Capture and Codification
KNM 402 - Strategy and Planning
KNM 403 - Process Continuity and Future Planning
The minor is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

