Whitman Bachelor of Science Degree Requirements
The B.S. degree, in any of the 9 areas available, requires at least 122 credits, distributed as indicated below. In addition, all students must complete two university-wide required courses: First-year Seminar (FYS 101) and a 3-credit IDEA course, as well as global diversity, community engagement, and internship requirements before graduating.
University-wide Requirements
All incoming and transfer students are required to take a 1-credit FYS 101 course and a 3-credit IDEA course that can be selected from an approved list.
Quantitative Skills
MAT 284 - Business Calculus *
MAS 261 - Introductory Statistics for Management
Science electives (astronomy, biology, chemistry, earth science, physics, or any physical science) 3 credits
BUA 345 - Business Analytics for Management Decisions
Total Credits: 13
Communication Skills
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
WRT 307 - Advanced Writing Studio: Professional Writing
Total Credits: 9
Required Arts & Sciences Courses
ECN 101 - Introductory Microeconomics
PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior
 ECN 102 - Introductory Macroeconomics or
ECN 203 - Economic Ideas and Issues
Total Credits: 9
Arts & Science Electives
27 credits taken through any subject offered by the College of Arts & Sciences. IDEA courses offered in the College of Arts & Sciences can be taken to fulfill the 3-credit IDEA course requirement. FYS 101&nbsp;counts towards 1 required A&S elective credit.
Total Credits: 27
Introductory Core
In addition to management coursework taken within other skills areas, students are required to complete the following coursework in the management core:
SOM 122 - Perspectives of Business and Management (fall only)
LPP 255 - Introduction to the Legal System
ACC 151 - Introduction to Financial Accounting
ACC 252 - Intro to Managerial Acc
Integrated Core 1 (fall only)
FIN 256 - Principles of Finance
MAR 255 - Principles of Marketing
SCM 265 - Introduction to Supply Chain Management
Integrated Core 2 (spring only)
MGT 247 - Introduction to Strategic Management
MGT 248 - Managing and Leading People in Organizations
SOM 354 - Managing in a Global Setting
Senior Capstone
EEE 457 - Strategic and Entrepreneurial Management
Total Credits: 31
Major Field Specialization
All students, except those majoring in professional accounting, take 15 credits in the major area beyond core requirements. Students must contact an academic advisor in the chosen major field to discuss specific requirements.
Total Credits: 15
Business Elective
A business elective is any upper-division course in the Whitman School that gives credit but is not used to fill requirements in other groups. This course cannot be from the student’s major area. IDEA courses offered in the Whitman School can be taken to fulfill the 3-credit IDEA course requirement.
Total Credits: 3
Free Electives
Students complete additional credits from any credit-bearing course with the following conditions: no more than 3 credits of physical education, health, or music ensemble may be used; and students may not take courses considered to have content that duplicates courses already taken. IDEA courses taken outside of the College of Arts & Sciences and the Whitman School can be taken to fulfill the 3-credit course requirement.
Total Credits: 12

