Mathematics Education (Dual), BS
Contacts
For Intra-University Transfers:
Arts and Sciences: Advising and Academic Support Office, 323 Hall of Languages, 315-443-3150, casadvising@syr.edu
School of Education: Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230; 315-443-9319, soeadvising.syr.edu
Program Contact:
Duane Graysay, 103C Carnegie Library, 315-443-1485
Committed to the integration of theory and practice through university-school partnerships and extensive field-based experiences for all students, the mathematics education major engages students in both the conceptual understanding and procedural fluency of mathematics, while also preparing them to teach and instruct math skills in the classroom.
The mathematics education program at Syracuse University is a dual program between the School of Education and the College of Arts and Sciences, in which students earn one degree with a major from each school/college.  In courses and field experiences, students learn how to address all learners’ needs in a changing and diverse society, with particular emphasis on mathematics content knowledge, inclusive and culturally relevant pedagogy, critical reflection and explanation of practice, assessment of student learning and development of mathematical literacy, and professional conduct and collaboration. 
Syracuse University offers both a Bachelor’s of Arts (B.A.) and a Bachelor’s of Science (B.S.) option for a mathematics education diploma.  For the B.A. option, please visit the B.A. mathematics education page.  The B.S. option requires students to complete more mathematics courses than the B.A. option.
In the B.S. program, students earn a B.S. degree with two majors in both mathematics and mathematics education, and complete courses in three major areas:
Liberal Arts Core and electives
Mathematics major in the College of Arts and Sciences
Professional education courses (including student teaching)
When planning their sequence of courses, students should keep in mind that at least 9 credits of education including student teaching are required in the fall of the senior year in order to meet the prerequisites for the spring student teaching experience. As many content (mathematics major) courses as possible should be completed by the end of the junior year.
A total of 124 credits is required. Some students may need to complete total program credits that are slightly greater than 124. The program meets the academic requirements for New York State initial certification to teach Math to grades 7-12. Successful completion of certification examinations, an application and a background check are also required for New York State teacher certification.
Admissions
A minimum of a 3.0 grade point average is required for admission to the College of Arts and Sciences and School of Education dual enrollment program. GPA requirements for admission to the candidacy and standard student teaching semesters, and other prerequisites to these semesters, are mentioned below. Intra-University transfer to the School of Education is coordinated through the Office of Academic and Student Services, 111 Waverly Avenue, Suite 230, and a course sequencing plan must be completed with an advisor at the time of application.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Acquire knowledge of each student, and demonstrate knowledge of student development and learning to promote achievement for all students
2. Know the content they are responsible for teaching, and plan instruction that ensures growth and achievement for all students
3. Implement instruction that engages and challenges all students to meet or exceed the learning standards
4. Work with all students to create a dynamic learning environment that supports achievement and growth
5. Use multiple measures to assess and document student growth, evaluate instructional effectiveness, and modify instruction
6. Demonstrate professional responsibility and engage relevant stakeholders to maximize student growth, development, and learning
7. Set informed goals and strive for continuous professional growth
Program Requirements
Liberal Arts Requirements
Within the Liberal Arts Core, major, and/or electives, Mathematics Education majors must complete:
One approved history (HST) course (3 credits)
One social science course (other than history (HST) or psychology (PSY)) (3 credits)
One arts-related course within Arts and Sciences (History of Art (HOA) or History of Music (HOM), or other approved humanities course focusing on one or more of the arts) (3 credits)
One humanities course, other than arts-related or HST (3 credits)
One multicultural humanities or social science course  (3 credits)
A two course sequence in calculus-based physics with laboratory components
PHY 211 - General Physics I with PHY 221 - General Physics Laboratory I
PHY 212 - General Physics II with PHY 222 - General Physics Laboratory II
One course (minimum 3 credits) in a language other than English, or equivalent competency established by examination or successful completion of level three of high school study
Mathematics Content
Mathematics education majors are required to complete the 48 credit hour B.S. in Mathematics.  Mathematics education majors must complete specific mathematics courses not necessarily required of other mathematics majors, including:
MAT 295 - Calculus I
MAT 296 - Calculus II
MAT 397 - Calculus III
MAT 375 - Introduction to Abstract Mathematics
MAT 331 - First Course in Linear Algebra
MAT 531 - Second Course in Linear Algebra
MAT 412 - Introduction to Real Analysis I
MAT 512 - Introduction to Real Analysis II
MAT 521 - Introduction to Probability
MAT 534 - Introduction to Abstract Algebra
MAT 541 - Introduction to Number Theory
MAT 551 - Fundamental Concepts of Geometry
MAT 593 - History of Mathematics
MAT 525 - Mathematical Statistics or
MAT 526 - Introduction to Stochastic Processes
• MAT 400+ by advisement, typically from MAT 414, MAT 525, or MAT 526 (one not taken above), MAT 545, or MAT 581 
Professional Education Core Courses
The professional sequence includes coursework, field experience and student teaching, and requirements other than coursework, described below.
The Professional Core Requires:
EDU 204 - Principles of Learning in Inclusive Classrooms
EDU 304 - Study of Teaching
EDU 310 - The American School
RED 326 - Literacy Across the Curriculum
EDU 366 - Safe and Healthy Learning Environments
Special Notes:
EDU 304 and RED 326 should be taken after EDU 204; EDU 204 may be taken as early as the second semester of the first year. All must be taken before the first professional semester.
EDU 310 may be taken before, or after (extra semester) professional semesters.
EDU 366 or the equivalent Child Health and Life Safety Workshops and DASA training must be completed before the first student teaching semester.
Candidacy Semester (fall of the senior year)
Note: The semesters of registration listed are for students completing the program in four years. Others would adjust accordingly, with the candidacy and second professional semester as late in the program as possible. However, the candidacy semester must be completed in a fall semester.
Prerequisites: enrollment in the mathematics education program; development of an acceptable professional portfolio (reviewed prior to the candidacy semester); a minimum 3.0 cumulative GPA, and 3.0 in required education and content (mathematics) courses; completion of EDU 204, EDU 304, EDU 366, RED 326; completion of the majority of mathematics courses; and appropriate progress toward meeting all of the program assessment proficiencies and dispositions
SED 413 - Methods and Curriculum in Teaching
SPE 412 - Adapting Instruction for Diverse Student Needs
EDU 508 - Student Teaching
Standard Student Teaching Semester (spring of senior year)
Prerequisites: Successful completion of the candidacy semester and acceptable professional portfolio; completion of the required amount of credits in the content area; grade point averages at or above the minimums stated above; successful review of all appropriate student assessment proficiencies and dispositions.
EDU 508  - Student Teaching/Mathematics (9 credits required)
SED 416  - Assessment & Data-Driven Instruction/Mathematics
Special Notes: Because this student teaching placement is a full-time, multi-week experience, no other daytime courses can be taken, and it is not advisable to plan more than 12 total credits in this semester, unless approved by an advisor.

