Theater Design and Technology, BFA
Contact
Carmen M. Martinez, Program Coordinator
820 East Genesee Street
315-443-2669
cmarti46@syr.edu
Faculty
David Bowman, Gretchen Darrow-Crotty, Alex Jainchill, Jacqueline Herter, Emily Holm, Izmir Ickbal, Carmen Martinez, Rebecca Schuetz, Randall Steffen, Rob Andrusko, Sandy Knapp, Mara Tunnicliff, Amanda Moore
Description
The Bachelor of Fine Arts in Theater Design and Technology is conducted within a stimulating environment that combines both classroom and hands-on learning experiences. The 130-credit curriculum stresses building a firm foundation in the arts and the humanities as well as in the applied aspects and crafts of the theater. In the first year theater design and technology majors are an integral part of Drama Department productions as members of backstage crews and as assistants to designers. This interaction between theory and practice is an essential part of developing an educated, creative theater person.
Advanced students design many Department of Drama main-stage productions and work with the professional staff and company of Syracuse Stage. Seniors in the program are eligible for internships with Syracuse Stage.
Students interested in design specialize in one or more areas: set design, costume design, and lighting design. Each area of specialization requires a specific sequence of coursework. Courses in studio art, art and architectural history, and costume history contribute to developing conceptual design skills. The theater design and technology program also offers training in the use of computers as design tools. Facilities include two design studios, a Light Box and a CAD lab in addition to the technical shops shared with Syracuse Stage.
B.F.A. students interested in the technical aspects of theater may specialize in scene construction and painting, lighting, properties, or costumes, in consultation with a faculty advisor.
The B.F.A. program is appropriate for students interested in a career in the fields of entertainment design or technology.
Students wishing to explore a curriculum that combines theater design and technology with a broader liberal arts content may apply for the120-credit B.S. degree in drama, with a technical theater emphasis, provided they have been admitted to and have completed a portion of the B.F.A.
Student Learning Outcomes
After four years in the Theater Design and Technology program, students are expected to graduate with a competitive portfolio and resume to submit for consideration for professional employment or for admission to a Master of Fine Arts program in their area of concentration. The following competencies are expected to be gained in the program through classes and experiential learning:
Create a visual interpretation of a script or concept through an understanding of theater as an art form
Communicate effectively and clearly with all collaborators (directors, other designers, performers, technical shops, producers, etc.) on any given project
Respectfully provide and receive feedback of their own work as well as their peers
Demonstrate an understanding of the principles of both two and three-dimensional design, and the use of the elements of design (color, texture, line, form/mass, and light) to affect emotional impact of theatrical design
Apply knowledge of art history into theatrical design
Create freehand drawings of figures, still life scenes and perspective sketches
Create technical drawings - both hand and computer-aided (ground plans, sections, elevations, painter’s elevations, lighting plots, costume sketches) for the fabrication and realization of theatrical designs
Use different media and methods to communicate ideas to collaborators
Demonstrate proficiency with the equipment, technology and/or construction practices of one or more specific discipline (scenic, costume and lighting)
Integrate safe practices in the fabrication and realization of theatrical designs
Program Requirements
Drama Requirements: 24 credits
DRA 105 - Introduction to Acting/Non-Majors
DRA 115 - Drama in Context I
DRA 116 - Drama in Context II
DRA 315 - Play Analysis for Production
DRA 331 - Introduction to Directing
DRA 355 - Drama in Context III
DRA 356 - Drama in Context IV
Drama Literature    3 credits
Design/Tech Requirements 55 credits
DRD 140 - Introduction to Theater Crafts I
DRD 141 - Introduction to Design for the Theater I
DRD 142 - Introduction to Design for the Theater II
DRD 240 - Introduction to Theater Crafts II
DRD 111 - Media, Methods, and Materials in Theatrical Design
DRD 112 - Drafting for the Theater
DRD 311 - Scene Design I
DRD 321 - Theatrical Costume Design I
DRD 331 - Stage Lighting I
DRD - Design Level II  3 credits
DRD - Design Level II  3 credits
DRD - Design Level III  3 credits
Theater Practicum (x3)  2 credits each
Tech Support  3 credits
Experience Credit (x5)  2 credits each
Note:
Each area of specialization (sets, costume, lights) requires a specific sequence of design courses and practicums. Please consult with the program coordinator for further information.
Theatre Laboratory: 0 credits
DRA 090 - Theater Lab 
Seven Required semesters of Theater Lab:  total of zero credits
Drama Electives: 12 credits
Drama electives (also known as drama support) are courses that are not required specifically for the student’s program of study, but which are meant to enhance their understanding of their major field or their overall undergraduate experience.
Studio Electives 6 credits
3 credits must be in drawing.
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Academic Electives: 17 credits
Academic electives are courses that involve critical thinking and theoretical understanding as opposed to practical application, mostly in the Liberal Arts. These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, entrepreneurship, and languages, among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here.
Art History Electives: 6 credits
Note:
Students may only have a combined total of 12 credits from Independent Study or Experience Credit
Total Credits Required: 130
Degree Awarded: BFA in Theater Design and Technology

