German Language, Literature, and Culture, BA
Contact:
Karina Von Tippelskirch
315 H.B. Crouse
315-443-5383
Kvontipp@syr.edu
Faculty
Mona Eikel-Pohen, Karina von Tippelskirch
This B.A. program offers instruction in German language, literature, and culture. GER 101, GER 102 (or the equivalent) are prerequisites for GER 201 and for advanced-level courses. Upper-level courses provide in-depth study of German literature and culture and further development of linguistic skills.
All students are required to take a placement examination. The requirement applies to all new Syracuse University students regardless of class standing or study elsewhere.
Students interested in studying German should consult the program coordinator of German as early as possible. Early consultation is particularly important for students with little or no preparation in German so they may be sure to satisfy prerequisites and requirements within four years.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Speaking: Communicate with a degree of fluency and spontaneity that makes regular interaction with native speakers possible without strain for either party
2. Listening: Understand and respond to the main points of clear standard input on familiar matters regularly encountered in work, school, leisure regularly encountered in work, school, leisure and social interactions
3. Reading: Comprehend the main ideas of complex texts on both concrete and abstract topics, including technical discussions in students’ fields of specialization
4. Writing: Analyze cultural topics, artefacts, and (literary) texts, evaluate them, and reflect on their own culture by creating short research papers, presentations, e-portfolios, or poster sessions
5. Literature: Investigate critically, interpret, analyze, and respond critical and creatively to German literature in a variety of literary genres, topics, and forms
6. Culture: Contrast and compare German-speaking history, cultures, and artefacts through critical research, analysis, and critical and creative responses with the students’ cultures
Major Requirements
The major in German consists of 27 credits including GER 202 plus at least eight upper-division courses taught in German.
Study Abroad
To become fluent in the language and experience the culture in the countries where German is spoken, students are strongly encouraged to study abroad for a semester or a year. Syracuse University’s World Partner programs in Berlin, Freiburg and Graz enable students to take fully accredited classes in German language, literature and culture. The Freiburg Program, in collaboration with Colgate University, gives advanced German students the opportunity to take classes in German and in other fields of study such as history, international relations, journalism, and other electives in the arts and sciences. For further information, contact the German program coordinator or Syracuse University Abroad, 106 Walnut Place (http://suabroad.syr.edu).

