Fine Arts, BA
Wayne Franits, Chair
308 Bowne Hall
315-443-4184

Theo Cateforis, Undergraduate Director for Fine Arts
308 Bowne Hall
315-443-4184
Faculty
Molly Bourne (Florence), Theo Cateforis, Sally Cornelison, Wayne Franits, Margaret Innes, Samuel Johnson, Matilde Mateo, Jonathan Nelson (Florence), Sean Nelson (Florence), Ruth Opara, Cary Peñate, Romita Ray, Sascha Scott, Serena Wang
Students pursuing a degree in Fine Arts are required to complete 30 credits of coursework: 12 at the lower division and 18 at the upper division.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Identify, explain, and analyze works of art from both western and non-western societies from different eras
2. Recognize and explain the relationship of artistic styles to historical events and intellectual trends
3. Distinguish among stylistic differences in musics of different eras and from different cultures
4. Recognize and explain historical changes in musics of different eras and from different cultures
5. Express ideas clearly through writing
6. Demonstrate proficiency in musical skills
Lower division requirements (12 credits)
History of Art and Music
HOM 125 - Introductory Music Theory I
HOA 105 - Arts and Ideas I
HOA 106 - Arts and Ideas II
One of the courses from the following list
A 200-level HOM course may count by petition:
HOM 165 - Understanding Music I
HOM 166 - Understanding Music II
HOM 172 - American Popular Music
HOM 195 - Performance Live
Upper division requirements (18 credits)
Students must take 6 courses at the 300-level or above. 3 of these courses must be HOM and 3 of them must be HOA.
Additional Information
Students may count 3 credits of studio art, music lessons or ensemble toward the upper division requirement. Students may petition to have 3 credits of appropriate coursework in art history and 3 credits of appropriate coursework in music history taken outside the department (non-HOA-HOM courses) count towards the fine arts major.
Distinction in Fine Arts (3 credits, required only for students earning a degree with distinction)
Majors who have earned a cumulative GPA of at least 3.7 will be invited to earn a degree with distinction. In order to earn this honor, students are required to enroll in either HOA 490 or HOM 490 (dependent on subject matter). These students will work independently, under the supervision of a faculty member, to complete a large-scale project in some aspect of art or/and music history. Students will determine the topic for their Distinction Project in consultation with a thesis advisor, whom they will choose from among the Art and Music Histories faculty (in exceptional cases other faculty may serve in this capacity). The thesis will also be evaluated by a second reader, chosen by the thesis advisor (in consultation with the student) from other faculty in the Art and Music Histories department or related disciplines. In most cases, the project will take the form of a formal essay approximately 6000 words in length. Alternative types of projects are also possible, provided they meet with the approval of both the thesis advisor and Fine Arts director. Students completing a Capstone Project for an Honor’s program thesis are welcome to submit this work for consideration. The Distinction Project may be substituted for any of the required 18 upper elective credits for the major. All projects must be awarded at least an A- to receive distinction. Credits from the HOA/HOM 490 Distinction project will count toward the upper division requirements.

