Sport Management, Minor
Coordinator
Jeff Pauline
300 MacNaughton Hall
315-443-2630
jspaulin@syr.edu
Description
The 18-credit minor in Sport Management is designed for students who are interested in pursuing a career path in the sport industry along with their chosen major. Students selecting this minor in sport management should have an interest in learning about the business, communications, marketing, event planning, economic, global, and legal aspects of the sport industry.
Admission
Applicants are required to have a minimum of a 3.25 cumulative GPA and will be admitted on a space available basis. To be eligible, a student must have completed 30 credits at Syracuse University in courses graded A-F and must submit a minor application to the Department of Sport Management (402 MacNaughton Hall) by November 1st for spring admission or April 1st for fall admission. Students must declare the sport management minor no later than the first semester of their junior year.
Student Learning Outcomes
All students will gain the knowledge required for a career in a sport industry along with their chosen major.  Students have the opportunity to study sport management, sport law, sport marketing or sport hospitality and event management.  Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
1. Explain, discuss, and analyze core areas of sport management.
2. Analyze data from the sport industry and prepare recommendations for business decisions within sport organizations.
3. Demonstrate the ability to clearly and concisely communicate sport management concepts in writing and orally.
4. Use technology appropriate for the sport industry.
Required core course (3 credits)
SPM 205 - Principles and Contemporary Issues in Sport Management
Plus 15 credits of additional Sport Management courses, 12 credits of which must be numbered 300 or above.
Total Credits Required: 18
Restrictions
The Sport Management minor is open to all students based on the admission requirements stated above.

