Advertising, BS
Contact:
Ed Russell, Chair
318 Newhouse 3, 315-443-4045
Faculty
Beth Egan, Daniela Molta, Kevin O’Neill, Rebecca Ortiz, Edward W. Russell, Brian Sheehan, Melanie White
Recognized as one of the top advertising and digital branding programs in the country, the advertising major in the S.I. Newhouse School of Public Communications helps students to become “big thinkers” and future advertising leaders. The curriculum provides an interdisciplinary approach to learning, introducing students to both the theory and practice of the advertising business through project-based experiences using real clients.
Besides taking core courses in advertising and communications, students will select one of two tracks - the Creative Track or the Insights & Strategy Track - and take 9 credits concentrated in the respective selected topic area.
This major requires 39 credits in communications.
Student Learning Outcomes in Advertising
In addition to the comprehensive Newhouse School learning outcomes listed in the School’s Educational Mission students in the Advertising major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcomes:
Present advertising ideas, plans, research, strategies and executions in settings appropriate to their career paths.
Major Requirements
Required Courses (27 credits)
ADV 206 - Advertising Practice in a Diverse Society
ADV 208 - The Big Idea in Advertising
ADV 307 - Conceptual and Creative Thinking in Media Planning
ADV 509 - Advertising Research and Planning: A Case Study Approach
COM 107 - Communications and Society
COM 117 - Multimedia Storytelling
COM 346 - Race, Gender, and the Media
Or
COM 348 - Beauty and Diversity in Fashion Media
Or
COM 350 - Topics in Media, Diversity and Inclusion
COM 507 - Communications Law for Advertising and Public Relations
VIS 207 - Introduction to Graphic Design
Track Requirement (9 credits)
Students choose to complete either the Creative Track or the Insights & Strategy Track.
Creative Track
ADV 401 - Portfolio I
ADV 421 - Portfolio II
ADV 431 - Portfolio III
OR
Insights & Strategy Track
Choose coursework that adds up to nine credits.  Internship credits do not count towards this requirement.
Required: One ADV course.
Students may choose more than one ADV course.
ADV 345 - International Advertising
ADV 507 - Strategic Media Planning
ADV 523 - Digital Branding and Strategy
ADV 526 - Fashion Advertising and Promotion
COM 415 - Digital Nation
COM 425 - Social Platforms, Processes, and Perspectives
COM 427 - Social Media for Communicators
MMI 434 - Trendspotting in Digital Media
TRF 496 - Research for Entertainment Media
TRF 595 - Programming and Audience Analysis
Any Newhouse course 300 level or above can be petitioned.
Capstone Requirement (3 credits)
ADV 425 - Integrated Advertising Campaigns
Grammar Competency Requirement
Students must complete a grammar competency as part of their degree requirements. There will be two ways students can satisfy this competency:
First, by passing a grammar competency exam during their first semester on campus. The exam will be given twice - once before the end of the first week of classes and a second time prior to registration the next semester.  A passing grade on the exam will fulfill the competency requirement.

Secondly, by passing COM 101, a 0-credit grammar course which will be mandatory for students who fail the grammar competency exam.  This course can be repeated until a passing grade is earned and the competency is met.
 Students must meet the grammar competency to receive a degree.
Global Experience
The Global Experience requirement may be fulfilled by studying abroad or taking an approved class. A list of courses that fulfill this requirement can be found in the Newhouse Guidebook. If a student chooses to take a Newhouse class to fulfill this requirement, the additional Newhouse hours will be added to the 122 credits needed for graduation if the student has reached the Newhouse credit maximum.
Total: 39 Newhouse credits required.

