Psychology, BS
Interim Chair:
Lael J. Schooler, Ph.D.
430 Huntington Hall
315-443-2354
psychology@syr.edu
Faculty:
Kevin Antshel, Sara E. Burke, Catherine A. Cornwell, Daniel Corral, Amy H. Criss, Joseph W. Ditre, Tanya L. Eckert, Les A. Gellis, Brett K. Jakubiak, Jessie Joyce, Michael L. Kalish, Afton Kapuscinski, David Kellen, Katie Kidwell, Lynn Lohnas, Laura V. Machia, Meredith Martin, Leonard S. Newman, Jeewon Oh, Aesoon Park, Natalie Russo, Jillian R. Scheer, Lael J. Schooler, Bradley Seymour, Linda Sun, Shannon M. Sweeney, Peter A. Vanable, Zahra Vahedi Sarah Woolf-King, Michelle Zaso, and Jeffrey C. Zemla 
Description:
Psychology is the scientific study of behavior. Professional psychologists may be researchers investigating behavior and/or practitioners, applying their knowledge and skills to individual and social problems.
The Psychology Department offers several options for students. These include a Bachelor of Arts major (B.A.), a Bachelor of Science major (B.S.), and a minor. Students planning to pursue a career in which a background in psychology is useful, such as business, communications, or social services, will find the B.A. degree to be an appropriate track. These students are encouraged to pursue experiences through part-time work or internships in their area of interest. Students interested in pursuing professional careers in psychology, social work, or other professional fields such as law will need to attend graduate school and obtain an advanced degree. These students are encouraged to consult with their academic advisor for advice on whether the B.A. or B.S. degree is most appropriate to meet their long-term goals. The B.S. degree is recommended for students planning professional careers in such fields as medicine, dentistry, and physical therapy.  All students are encouraged to utilize the career resources available in the Department of Psychology, the College of Arts and Sciences, and the University to learn about opportunities and prepare strategies to meet their goals. 
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Identify the major concepts, theoretical perspectives, empirical findings, and historical trends relevant to the foundational domains of psychology, including cognitive, social, clinical, and developmental bases of behavior
2. Understand and apply basic principles related to research design, data analysis, and interpretation.  This would include the ability to formulate testable research hypotheses, design a simple study to test the hypothesis, and apply appropriate statistical tests to answer basic research questions relevant to the field of psychology
3. Demonstrate a basic understanding of the American Psychological Association (APA) ethical guidelines and their applications in the context of conducting psychological research
4. Employ the effective use of written communication in the psychological sciences.  Employ the effective use of oral communication in the psychological sciences
5. Demonstrate the ability to effectively work in the field of psychology through involvement in faculty-mentored research, community-based internships, and independent study
6. Investigate natural phenomena, including the development of predictive explanatory systems, including the study of numerical and other abstract structures and relations
Bachelor of Science in Psychology Degree
Program Requirements
The B.S. requires a minimum of 30 credits in psychology (PSY) courses numbered 300 or above.  Only PSY courses count toward the 30 required credits. Students must earn a grade point average of at least a 2.0 in all upper-division Psychology (PSY) courses taken at Syracuse University and counted towards the completion of the major (see MySlice for the GPA calculator).  No more than three credits of PSY 270 or PSY 470 (Experience Credit) may be counted toward the major.  A course may be used to satisfy only one requirement. 
Petitions
Students interested in taking a psychology class at another institution and transferring it to Syracuse University to count toward either the major or minor should discuss the process with his/her academic advisor.  An electronic petition form must be completed.  Be sure to include all identifying information, such as your name and SU ID number, in the appropriate fields.
Prior to enrolling in the course, email the form and a copy of the course syllabus to the psychology department’s inbox at psychology@.syr.edu. Petitions may take up to two weeks for review. Winter intersession classes are generally not accepted as transfer credit. Students should plan their program of study in consultation with their academic advisor in order to ensure timely completion of degree requirements.
PSY 213 and PSY 252 must be taken on SU main campus, petitions will not be accepted for these classes.
Advanced electives must be taken at Syracuse University SU main campus, petitions will not be accepted for this requirement. 
Foundations
Foundations
Students must complete 6 courses that establish the foundation for the study of psychological science. PSY 205 (or the honors equivalent, PSY 209) is a prerequisite for most PSY courses. We recommend that students take PSY 213 early in the major. 
PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior
OR
PSY 209 - Foundations of Human Behavior/ Honors Section
AND
PSY 213 - Introduction to Research Methodology 
PSY 322 - Cognitive Psychology
PSY 335 - Psychology of Childhood
PSY 274 - Social Psychology
PSY 395 - Abnormal Psychology
PSY 205 - Foundations of Human Behavior
OR
PSY 209 - Foundations of Human Behavior/ Honors Section
AND
PSY 213 - Introduction to Research Methodology
PSY 374 - Social Psychology
PSY 322 - Cognitive Psychology
PSY 335 - Psychology of Childhood
PSY 395 - Abnormal Psychology
Statistics Sequence
Majors must satisfy a two semester statistics sequence from the list below which also satisfies the quantitative skills requirement of the Liberal Arts Core, PSY 252 counts towards the 30 required credits in Psychology, but MAT courses do not. 
Preferred Option for Statistics Sequence
MAT 221 - Elementary Probability and Statistics I
PSY 252 - Statistical Methods II
Alternative Statistics Sequence #1
MAT 121 - Probability and Statistics for the Liberal Arts I
PSY 252 - Statistical Methods II
Alternative Statistics Sequence #2
MAT 285 - Life Sciences Calculus I
PSY 252 - Statistical Methods II
Alternative Statistics Sequence #3
MAT 295 - Calculus I
PSY 252 - Statistical Methods II
Psychology Advanced Electives
Students are required to take one advanced elective. Advanced elective courses are listed below. 
PSY 331 - Laboratory in Sensation and Perception
PSY 332 - Experiments in Cognitive Psychology
PSY 334 - Laboratory in Developmental Biopsychology
PSY 373 - Human Memory
PSY 379 - The Social Psychology of Stigma
PSY 383 - Laboratory in Health Psychology
PSY 410 - Close Relationships
PSY 415 - Introduction to Clinical Psychology
PSY 420 - Using Robots to Understand the Mind
PSY 422 - The Psychology of Decision Making
PSY 424 - Social Dilemmas
PSY 425 - Internships in Clinical Psychology
PSY 431 - Alcohol Use and Abuse
PSY 432 - Applied Behavior Analysis
PSY 443 - Laboratory in Child Psychology
PSY 447 - Autism
PSY 472 - Laboratory in Social Psychology: Advanced Research Methods and Practice
PSY 484 - Laboratory in Forensic Psychology
Psychology Lecture-Lab Combination
B.S. students are required to complete one psychology lecture-laboratory combination. Courses selected to complete the combination may not be used to satisfy other requirements for the major. There are no substitutions for this requirement. The department strongly recommends students take the lecture and lab during the same semester. There is no guarantee that labs will be offered in future semesters. If it is not possible to take the lecture and lab simultaneously, the lecture must be completed as a pre-requisite to the lab. The following course sequences satisfy this requirement:
PSY 321 - Introduction to Sensation and Perception
PSY 331 - Laboratory in Sensation and Perception
OR
PSY 324 - Developmental Biopsychology
PSY 334 - Laboratory in Developmental Biopsychology
OR
PSY 382 - Health Psychology
PSY 383 - Laboratory in Health Psychology
OR
PSY 419 - Complex Cognition & Learning
PSY 420 - Using Robots to Understand the Mind
OR
PSY 442 - Research Methods in Child Psychology
PSY 443 - Laboratory in Child Psychology
OR
PSY 471 - Experimental Social Psychology: Research Methods and Scientific Inference
PSY 472 - Laboratory in Social Psychology: Advanced Research Methods and Practice
OR
PSY 474 - Forensic Psychology
PSY 484 - Laboratory in Forensic Psychology
Psychology Electives
The B.S. student selects additional Psychology (PSY) electives to achieve a minimum of 30 PSY credit hours numbered at the 300 level or above if needed.  
Additional Mathematics and Natural Science Requirements
Natural Science Lecture-Laboratory Requirement
The B.S. student must complete 1 of the 6 lecture-laboratory sets below. 
BIO 121 - General Biology I
BIO122, General Biology I Laboratory
BIO 123 - General Biology II
BIO 124 - General Biology II Laboratory
OR
CHE 106 - General Chemistry Lecture I
CHE 107 - General Chemistry Laboratory I
CHE 116 - General Chemistry Lecture II
CHE 117 - General Chemistry Laboratory II
OR
CHE 109 - General Chemistry Lecture I (Honors and Majors)
CHE 119 - General Chemistry Lecture II (Honors and Majors)
CHE 129 - General Chemistry Laboratory I (Honors and Majors)
CHE 139 - General Chemistry Laboratory II (Honors and Majors)
OR
PHY 101 - Major Concepts of Physics I
PHY 102 - Major Concepts of Physics II
OR
PHY 211 - General Physics I
PHY 212 - General Physics II
OR
PHY 215 - General Physics I for Scientists
PHY 221 - General Physics Laboratory I
PHY 216 - General Physics II for Scientists
PHY 222 - General Physics Laboratory II
Mathematics and Natural Sciences Electives
In addition to the natural science lecture-laboratory requirement and the statistics sequence requirement for the Psychology major, the B.S. student must complete three courses (a minimum of 9 credits) in mathematics and/or in the natural sciences. This requirement is intended to deepen or enhance the student’s experience and scholarly interests in the sciences. Courses that satisfy this requirement are listed below.  Courses used toward the natural science lecture-laboratory requirement cannot be used to fulfill this requirement. Courses used toward the statistics requirement cannot be used to fulfill this requirement. 
Anthropology
ANT 131 - Introduction to Biological Anthropology
ANT 433 - Human Osteology
Astronomy
All AST courses.
Biology
All BIO courses.
Chemistry
All CHE courses.
Communication Sciences and Disorders
CSD 212 - Introduction to Communication Sciences and Disorders
CSD 315 - Anatomy and Physiology of the Speech and Hearing Mechanisms
CSD 325 - Fundamentals of Hearing Sciences
CSD 345 - Speech Science
CSD 409 - Cognitive Neuroscience of Speech and Language
Earth Sciences
All EAR courses
(credit will not be given for both  EAR 110  &  EAR 105 )

Geography
GEO 155 - The Natural Environment
GEO 215 - Global Environmental Change
GEO 316 - River Environments
GEO 326 - The Geography of Climate and Weather
GEO 455 - Biogeography
GEO 482 - Environmental Remote Sensing
GEO 583 - Environmental Geographical Information Science
Mathematics
All MAT courses above 230.

Physics
All PHY courses.
Science Teaching
All SCI courses.
David B. Falk College of Sport and Human Dynamics
NSD 225 - Nutrition in Health
*Applies as Non-Arts & Sciences credit
Distinction Program
Program faculty will invite majors who meet the eligibility requirements to participate in the Distinction Program. The Distinction Program offers an enhanced research and mentoring experience. Distinction candidates must, at the time of graduation, have a GPA of at least 3.6 in Psychology courses and 3.4 overall. They must also complete two required psychology distinction courses (PSY 497 and PSY 498). In addition, they will conduct faculty-sponsored empirical or theoretical research using real or simulated data on a topic that is appropriate for psychology journals. Distinction candidates must write a research paper in a style appropriate for psychology journals and receive approval of their final document from their faculty sponsor and one faculty reader. The Distinction Program provides scholars the skills and support needed to produce a project suitable for presentation at an academic conference or for publication in a psychology journal.

