Creative Leadership Minor
Contact:
Associate Dean:
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, rywillia@syr.edu
Administrative Director:
Michele L. Mooney, Academic Program Administrator
College of Professional Studies, mlmooney@syr.edu
Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Description:
The Creative Leadership minor is an interdisciplinary minor that gives students the opportunity to study creativity, leadership, communication, and problem-solving issues. This minor contributes to creating future professionals with a breadth of interpersonal skills necessary to collaborate across industries. This minor requires completion of 18 credits.
To Declare a College of Professional Studies Minor
Check with your home school or college to make sure you have room in your program for the required 18 credits of coursework and that you are in good academic standing.
Map out the minor with your academic advisor to ensure you have room within your schedule to complete these 18 credits prior to your anticipated graduation date.
Complete the Declaration of Minor form and return it via email to profstudiesminors@syr.edu
The minor coordinator will sign and return the form to you.
Take the signed form to your home school or college for processing. 
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Explain the importance of professional relationships and networking
2.  Identify possible causes for conflict in professional situations and propose creative scenarios for resolution
3. Apply knowledge gained to systematically problem-solve
Requirements
Courses (required and elective): 18 credits
Required courses (6 credits):
CRL 301 - Introduction to Creative Leadership
CRL 311 - Professional Issues in Creative Leadership
 Choose 4 classes (12 credits) from below:
CRL 319 - Global Leadership
BPS 325 - Creative and Design Thinking for Professional Studies
CRL 342 - Customer Relations Leadership
CRL 472 - Organizational Leadership
CRL 313 - Strategic Leadership in Professional Studies
CRL 320 - Coaching for Leaders
CRL 406 - Leading from Within
PPM 301 - Foundations of Project Management
The minor is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to structure a plan for degree completion.

