Knowledge Management Certificate
Contact:
Associate Dean:
Ryan O. Williams, Associate Dean of Academic Affairs, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies,rywillia@syr.edu
Program Director:
Steve Wallace, Professor of Practice
College of Professional Studies, swalla02@syr.edu
  Program Questions, contact the College of Professional Studies at 315-443-9378, or email parttime@syr.edu
Faculty List 
Description:
Knowledge Management is the cross section between data science, computer science and people. Knowledge management encompasses the process of applying a systematic approach to the capture, structuring, management, and dissemination of knowledge throughout an organization. Knowledge resources exist in the people, processes, and technology of organizations and are often lost as individuals depart.  Capturing these resources into a formal and reusable construct allows organizations to focus on growth and innovation through sharing and applying of knowledge while remembering and documenting lessons learned creating an organizational memory.
Admission:
30 college credits.
Student Learning Outcomes
1.      Explain the role of technology, its use as a resource tool in organizations and society, social media, data mining/security
2.      Apply knowledge gained in program to make sense of the amount of data available, systematically problem-solve and be able to propose creative/design-thinking solutions.
 3.     Develop tasks and work processes for desired organizational outcomes, ability to work face-to-face or virtually, and to critically and ethically analyze big data.

Requirements
Courses:
15 credits in upper division major/concentration courses as indicated:
KNM 301 - Introduction to Knowledge Management
KNM 401 - Professional Issues in Knowledge Management
KNM 310 - Knowledge Capture and Codification
KNM 402 - Strategy and Planning
KNM 403 - Process Continuity and Future Planning
Total Credits: 15
Note:
The certificate is administered by the College of Professional Studies. Each student should consult with their Academic Advisor to ensure certificate completion.

