Anthropology Minor
Christopher DeCorse, Chair
209 Maxwell Hall
315-443-2200
Faculty
Mona Bhan, Christopher R. DeCorse, Amanda Hilton, Azra Hromadzic, Jok M. Jok, Heather Law-Pezzarossi, Kyrstin Mallon Andrews, Shannon A. Novak, Guido Pezzarossi, Lars Rodseth, Robert A. Rubinstein, Maureen Trudelle Schwarz, Theresa A. Singleton, John Marshall Townsend, Lauren Woodward
Anthropology explores the entire range of human experiences in the past and present. Our department offers undergraduate courses covering the breadth of the discipline, including physical anthropology (the study of human evolution and biological variation); archaeology (the study of prehistoric and historic cultures through material remains); linguistics (the study of language - its structure, historic developments, and social aspects); cultural anthropology (the study of contemporary societies); and applied anthropology (the use of anthropological methods and theory to solve real-world problems). Ongoing research by our faculty and graduate students covers a broad array of topics, from slave settlements in Jamaica to women and development in India; from religious movements in Brazil to sustainable agriculture in Nepal; from forestry in Kenya to the Underground Railroad in Syracuse. Current research sites span the globe, including South and East Asia, South and North America, West and East Africa, the Middle East, Europe, and the Caribbean.
Undergraduate training in anthropology is useful in many fields, including education, international business, law, journalism, cultural resources management and public service. For students interested in future graduate studies in anthropology, our program offers a solid ground in theory, methods, ethics and practical application.
Undergraduate students are encouraged to explore anthropology not only through course work, but with direct involvement in laboratory research and field work. Our department has fully equipped archeology and physical anthropology laboratories, providing a variety of research opportunities. A well-established archaeological field training program is offered each summer. Field experience in cultural anthropology is available through community internships, independent studies, and ongoing faculty research. We also recommend that students consider spending a semester or two in another country through the University’s SU Abroad Program, as a way of enhancing their major with true cross-cultural experience. For information contact the Anthropology Department Undergraduate Director.
The minor in anthropology is designed to encourage students to pursue breadth in areas which complement their major. With the assistance of their faculty advisors, students can design a minor reflecting their interest in any of the subfields of anthropology: socio/cultural, biological/physical, archaeological, applied, and policy-related studies.
To complete the minor in anthropology, students take 18 credits. No more than 6 credits at the 100-200 level can count toward the minor.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Describe, explain, and apply core medical anthropological concepts, theories, and data in the following three areas: social-cultural diversity pertaining to perceptions and practices of health, illness, medicine, and the body; causes for health disparities; evolutionary bases of health behavior
2. Conduct research projects on medical anthropological topics and to present results effectively in writing
3. Apply medical anthropological ideas and knowledge in analysis of real-world health problems
Minors Should Choose An Area Of Concentration From The Lists Below
Examples of possible courses leading to a minor in anthropology could include (but are in no way limited to) the following:
Applied and Policy Related:
ANT 111 - Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
ANT 356 - Applied Anthropology
ANT 414 - Cities, Spaces and Power
ANT 417 - Economic Anthropology
ANT 445 - Public Policy and Archaeology
Archaeology:
ANT 141 - Introduction to Archaeology and Prehistory
ANT 145 - Archaeology of and in the Modern World
ANT 348 - Mummies, Tombs, and Treasure
ANT 443 - Field Methods in Archaeology
ANT 445 - Public Policy and Archaeology
ANT 446 - Caribbean Archaeology
Social/Cultural:
ANT 111 - Introduction to Cultural Anthropology
ANT 185 - Global Encounters:Comparing World Views & Values Cross-Culturally
ANT 325 - Anthropology of American Life in Film
ANT 373 - Magic and Religion
ANT 376 - Folklore
Biological/Physical:
ANT 131 - Introduction to Biological Anthropology
ANT 433 - Human Osteology
ANT 434 - Anthropology of Death
ANT 436 - Bioarchaeology
ANT 465 - Critical Issues in Medical Anthropology

