Music, BA
Contact
Janet Brown, Program Coordinator
304A Crouse College, 315-443-2191, janbrown@syr.edu 
Faculty
All Setnor School of Music Faculty
Description
The Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) program in music provides a unique opportunity to blend extensive professional work in music with studies in the liberal arts. It allows students who wish to earn a degree in music the opportunity to devote more time to liberal arts studies than is permitted in the program leading to the Bachelor of Music (B.Mus.) degree. Students accepted into the B.A. program must complete the same core of creative and professional music study.
Admission
Students accepted into the B.A. program must meet the same audition and admission standards required of other Setnor School of Music applicants.
Student Learning Outcomes
Principal Performance Area (Lower Division Sequence):

a. demonstrate functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level.
b. perform a cross-section of repertoire.



Secondary Performance Area/Keyboard Competency (Lower Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate functional keyboard skills to support musicianship at the appropriate level.



Harmony & Analysis (Lower Division Sequence):
a. identify/describe common elements and organizational patterns of music and their aural and verbal analysis.
b. identify/describe musical forms, processes, and structures.



Aural Skills & Analysis (Lower Division Sequence):
a. produce and recognize music at the appropriate level.



Ensemble Performance (Lower Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate artistry and technical skills in an ensemble setting.
b. demonstrate collaborative competency and knowledge of the ensemble’s repertoire.



History & Repertoire (Lower Division Sequence):
a. describe music history and identify repertoire through the present time, including the study and experience of musical languages and cultures.



Principal Performance Area (Upper Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate functional and artistic self-expression at the appropriate level.
b. perform a cross-section of repertoire.



Ensemble Performance (Upper Division Sequence):
a. demonstrate artistry and technical skills in an ensemble setting.
b. demonstrate collaborative competency and knowledge of the ensemble’s repertoire.



Music Conducting (Upper Division Sequence):
a. work as a leader, and in collaboration, on matters of musical interpretation.
Program Requirements
At least 44 credits are taken in The College of Arts and Sciences. At least 65 credits must be taken in music courses and 14 credits are apportioned to special music courses that support the principal performance area (or music electives) and to academic electives.
The Arts and Sciences requirements consist of 6 credits in writing (English), 8 credits in foreign language, and 6 credits in each of the following groups plus an additional 6 credits in each of two of the following groups: the social sciences; the natural sciences/mathematics; and humanities.
Major Requirements: 34 credits
PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE AREA  (12 credits)
SECONDARY PERFORMANCE AREA  (4 credits)

 (Keyboard Skills Unless Piano or Organ Student)
CTG 545 - Basic Conducting
MTC 145 - Diatonic Harmony I
MTC 146 - Diatonic Harmony II
MTC 245 - Chromatic Harmony I
MTC 246 - Chromatic Harmony II
MTC 147 - Ear Training I
MTC 148 - Ear Training II
MTC 247 - Ear Training III
MTC 248 - Ear Training IV
Music History and Literature: 12 credits
MHL 185 - Introduction to World Music
MHL 267 - European Music before 1800
MHL 268 - European and American Music Since 1800
MHL 500-level or above (3 credits)
Large Ensembles: 8 credits
One Large Ensemble Required for Each Semester in Residence
Small Ensembles: 2 credits
Weekly Student Convocations: 0 credits
Music Electives: 9 credits
Music Electives may be chosen from the following list of courses:
Any MHL or MTC Course (excluding MTC Composition Lessons)
AMC 545 - Diction in Singing
AMC 546 - Diction in Singing
MUE 416 - Psychological and Sociological Aspects of Music
MUE 445 - Music Cognition
MUI 309 - Studio Acoustics
MUI 405 - Music Industry Law and Ethics
PDG 519 - Vocal Pedagogy
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Academic Electives: 38 credits
Foreign Language (8 credits)
Social Sciences (6 credits)
Natural Sciences/Mathematics (6 credits)
Humanities (6 credits)
Focus area I (6 credits)
Focus area II (6 credits)
Free Electives: 13 credits
Free Electives may be chosen from the following list of courses:
Any A&S Course
Any MHL or MTC Course (excluding MTC Composition Lessons)
AMC 545 - Diction in Singing
AMC 546 - Diction in Singing
MUE 416 - Psychological and Sociological Aspects of Music
MUE 445 - Music Cognition
MUI 309 - Studio Acoustics
MUI 405 - Music Industry Law and Ethics
PDG 519 - Vocal Pedagogy
Total Credits Required: 123
Degree Awarded: BA in Music

