Dance Appreciation and Practice Minor
Contact:
Suzanne Oliver, skoliver@syr.edu
Student Learning Outcomes
1.Develop knowledge and skills specific to Western Theatrical Dance (History, Choreography, Kinesiology, Technique)
2.Demonstrate ability to apply concepts in action
3.Establish a disciplined practice in relation to dance
4.Understand and consistently employ safe practices (alignment, technique)
5.Explain the role of dance within a broad historical and cultural context (arts, humanities, wellness)
Requirements for Admission and Restrictions
The minor in dance appreciation and practice is available to matriculated, undergraduate students from all Syracuse University schools and colleges, provided that they have the permission of their home school or college, and have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.5. Some background knowledge and experience in dance is seen as beneficial for prospective minor applicants, but not required.
Due to course sequencing and enrollment limitations (conflicts and some courses are not offered every year), students must have a minimum of four semesters available to complete the minor requirements. Students wishing to apply for the minor after the Spring semester of their sophomore year, must have one or more courses completed, or in progress.
Program Requirements
Prerequisite
DAP 239 - Beginning Ballet I *
Required Courses
DAP 241 - Beginning Ballet II *
 DAP 242 - Intermediate Ballet I or
DAP 243 - Intermediate Ballet II
 DAP 244 - Beginning Modern I * or
DAP 245 - Beginning Modern II
 DAP 246 - Intermediate Modern I or
DAP 247 - Intermediate Modern II
 DAP 368 - History and Appreciation of Western Dance
DAP 423 - Basic Concepts of Choreography
PPE 395 - Structural Kinesiology
  *These classes may be waived if you exhibit advanced technique. You may then choose, with proper advisement, additional course work to ensure a total of 18 credits.
Choice of Two Courses
DAP 233 - African Dance
DAP 228 - Basic Social Ballroom Dance
DAP 235 - Beginning Jazz I
DAP 236 - Beginning Jazz II
DAP 234 - Tap I
DAP elective course (1 credit)
Choice of One Course
EXE 417 - Prevention and Care of Athletic Injuries
 NSD 425 - Nutrition for Fitness and Sports or
NSD 447 - Weight Management, Obesity and Disordered Eating
Other 300 level or above courses may be substituted by petition with the minor faculty coordinator’s approval.
NSD 225 is a prerequisite for both NSD courses above.
Total Credits 18
To Declare A Minor In Dance Appreciation and Practice
Download a Declaration of Minor form from https://registrar.syr.edu/students/student-forms/. Fill out the top parts, and sign. The minor code is DAN30MIN. Save the form to your computer.
Contact the minor coordinator by email (see above). Include information about your interest and GPA (e.g., an unofficial transcript from MySlice), and attach the minor declaration form that you completed and signed.  If you have any questions, or want to schedule a virtual meeting with the coordinator to discuss the minor, include these things in the email. 
When the minor coordinator has signed and emailed the form back to you, contact your home college advisor to make sure you have room in your program for the required number of minor courses. Have the advisor sign the form.
The last signature you need is for home college approval. Your college office should take care of processing the form.

