Stage Management, BFA
Contact
Don Buschmann, Program Coordinator
820 East Genesee Street
315-443-2669
dgbuschm@syr.edu
Faculty
Dianna Angell, Don Buschmann, Stuart Plymesser
Description
The Bachelor of Fine Arts in Stage Management prepares the student for a career as a professional stage manager. Program requirements are a combination of classes and experiential learning. The department works hand in hand with Syracuse Stage to provide a learning environment that emulates the professional world of the stage manager. First-year stage management students participate behind the scenes as production assistants. From the second year on, the students participate as assistant stage managers and production stage managers for main stage and Theatre productions. Students will also serve as interns with Syracuse Stage productions allowing them the experience of working as production assistants on professional productions.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Leadership: Student creates a way for others to contribute to the production process; demonstrates a dedication to the project and an acceptance of responsibility
2. Communication: Student accurately relates all notes and concerns to all involved in a timely manner
3. Artistry: Student adapts stage management techniques and approach to the genre, style, concept and situation
4. Decision Making: Student accepts responsibility for position appropriate decisions, demonstrates good judgement and encourages collaboration
5. Organization: Student effectively and efficiently utilizes information and people for all work-related activities
6. Professional Standards: Student will demonstrate the ability to participate in collaborative artistic endeavors to a professional standard
Program Requirements
Drama Requirements: 42 credits
DRA 105 - Introduction to Acting/Non-Majors
DRA 115 - Drama in Context I
DRA 116 - Drama in Context II
DRA 315 - Play Analysis for Production
DRA 331 - Introduction to Directing
DRA 355 - Drama in Context III
DRA 356 - Drama in Context IV
DRD 112 - Drafting for the Theater
DRD 141 - Introduction to Design for the Theater I
DRD 140 - Introduction to Theater Crafts I
DRD 240 - Introduction to Theater Crafts II
DRD 331 - Stage Lighting I
DRM 261 - Stage Management Core Skills Lab
Dramatic Literature  3 credits
Stage Management Requirements: 44 credits
DRD 337 - Practicum in Stage Lighting
DRD 338 - Practicum in Theater Sound
DRD 599 - Internship in Theatrical Design, Technology, or Management (x2) 3 credits each
DRM 251 - Introduction to Stage Management
DRM 340 - Stage Management Rehearsal Techniques
DRM 395 - Theater Management II
DRM 450 - Stage Management: Performance Techniques
DRM 460 - Stage Management for Production (x2) 4 credits each
DRM 460 - Stage Management for Production  2 credits
DRM 465 - Stage Management: Communication and Collaboration
DRM 467 - Stage Management: Touring Techniques
DRM 492 - Production Management
Technical Practicum (x2)  2 credits each
Theatre Laboratory: 0 credits
DRA 090 - Theater Lab 
Seven Required semesters of Theater Lab:  total of zero credits
Drama Electives: 8 credits
Drama electives (also known as drama support) are courses that are not required specifically for the student’s program of study, but which are meant to enhance their understanding of their major field or their overall undergraduate experience.
Academic Requirements: 6 credits
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Academic Electives: 23 credits
Academic electives are courses that involve critical thinking and theoretical understanding as opposed to practical application, mostly in the Liberal Arts. These academic courses usually have non-art-related content, such as math, natural sciences, astronomy, global history, political science, psychology, entrepreneurship, and languages, among others. You can find a comprehensive list of approved academic electives here. A maximum of 9 credits out of 23 can be from the department of drama.
Note:
Students may only have a combined total of 12 credits from Independent Study or Experience Credit
Total Credits Required: 124
Degree Awarded: BFA in Stage Management

