Environmental Engineering, BS
Department Chair:
Dr. Andria Costello Staniec, 151 Link Hall, 315-443-2311, costello@syr.edu
Program Director:
Dr. Svetoslava Todorova, 139 Link Hall, 315-443-2557, stodorov@syr.edu
Environmental Engineering Faculty
Riyad S. Aboutaha, Shobha K. Bhatia, Elizabeth Carter, David G. Chandler, Ruth Chen, Andria Costello Staniec, Charles T. Driscoll Jr., Chris E. Johnson, Min Liu, Yizhi Liu, Eric M. Lui, Sinead Mac Namara, Aaron Mohammed, Dawit Negussey, Zhao Qin, Baris Salman, Yilei Shi, Svetoslava Todorova, John Trimmer, Teng Zeng
The mission of the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department is to promote learning and the creation, dissemination, and application of knowledge in civil and environmental engineering through integration of teaching, scholarship, and service.
The goal of the Civil and Environmental Engineering Department is to prepare students for engineering practice, advanced study, and lifelong learning in civil and environmental engineering. Graduates are expected to be proficient in the fundamentals of sustainable engineering analysis and design and understand the importance and methods of effective communication. Students are encouraged to use the extensive international network and educational resources of Syracuse University and the Syracuse community to broaden and enhance the quality of their university education.
The educational objectives of the environmental engineering program are to produce graduates who:
can apply technical knowledge and problem-solving skills to advance their careers and serve the community;
are prepared for engineering practice and advanced studies in environmental engineering;
will engage in life-long learning to keep themselves abreast of new developments in their fields of practice or study; and
are capable of effective written and oral communications.
Environmental Engineering Description
The B.S. degree program in environmental engineering emphasizes the application of engineering and science principles to the preservation and management of the environment. It provides a strong background in the basic and engineering sciences and a variety of courses in several environmental areas, including water and wastewater treatment, solid and hazardous waste management, air pollution control, transport and fate of pollutants, and environmental chemistry and microbiology. The program allows students to pursue a series of elective courses suited to individual interests and goals, as well as to obtain minors in a variety of subject areas. Double-majors with geography, economics, political science and policy studies are possible without any additional coursework.
This program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of ABET, http://www.abet.org.
Adjustments in the program can be made to accommodate transfer students from accredited two- and four-year institutions so they may develop their programs of study as soon as possible after admission.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. An ability to identify, formulate, and solve complex engineering problems by applying principles of engineering, science, and mathematics
2. An ability to apply engineering design to produce solutions that meet specified needs with consideration of public health, safety, and welfare, as well as global, cultural, social, environmental, and economic factors
3. An ability to communicate effectively with a range of audiences
4. An ability to recognize ethical and professional responsibilities in engineering situations and make informed judgments, which must consider the impact of engineering solutions in global, economic, environmental, and societal contexts
5. An ability to function effectively on a team whose members together provide leadership, create a collaborative and inclusive environment, establish goals, plan tasks, and meet objectives
6. An ability to develop and conduct appropriate experimentation, analyze and interpret data, and use engineering judgment to draw conclusions
7. An ability to acquire and apply new knowledge as needed, using appropriate learning strategies.
Environmental Engineering Curriculum
First Year, Fall Semester
MAT 295 - Calculus I
CHE 106 - General Chemistry Lecture I
CHE 107 - General Chemistry Laboratory I
ECS 101 - Introduction to Engineering and Computer Science
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
SS/HUM Elective (3)
Total 18
First Year, Spring Semester
MAT 296 - Calculus II
CHE 116 - General Chemistry Lecture II
CHE 117 - General Chemistry Laboratory II
PHY 211 - General Physics I
PHY 221 - General Physics Laboratory I
SS/HUM Elective (3)
Total 15
Second Year, Fall Semester
MAT 397 - Calculus III
ECS 221 - Statics
SS/HUM Elective (3)
SS/HUM Elective (3)
Free Elective (3)
Total 16
Second Year, Spring Semester
MAT 485 - Differential Equations and Matrix Algebra for Engineers
CEE 274 - Sustainability in Civil and Environmental Systems
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
Select one of the following options:
EAR 203 Earth Systems Science  OR
EAR 104 Earth Science Lab  AND
EAR 105 Earth Science
CEE 325 - Mechanics of Materials
Total 16
Third Year, Fall Semester
CEE 327 - Prin of Fluid Mechanics
CEE 337 - Introduction to Geotechnical Engineering
CEE 341 - Introduction to Environmental Engineering
Professional Elective (3)
SS/HUM Elective (3)
Total 17
Third Year, Spring Semester
CEE 329 - Probability, Statistics and Risk for Civil and Environmental Engineering
CEE 352 - Water Resources Engineering
CEE 472 - Applied Env Microbiology
GEO 383 - Geographic Information Systems
SS/HUM Elective (3)
Total 18
Fourth Year, Fall Semester
CEE 442 - Treatment Processes in Environmental Engineering
CEE 562 - Air Resources I
Professional Elective (3)
Professional Elective (3)
Select one of the following courses (3)** or Technical Elective (3)
ELE 231 - Electrical Engineering Fundamentals 
CEE 326 - Engineering Materials 
CHE 346 - Physical Chemistry I 
Total 16
Fourth Year, Spring Semester
CEE 471 - Environmental Chemistry and Analysis
CEE 475 - Civil and Environmental Engineering Design
Technical Elective (3)
Select one of the following courses (3)** or Technical Elective (3)
ECS 222 - Dynamics 
ELE 231 - Electrical Engineering Fundamentals 
MAE 251 - Thermodynamics 
Total 13
Total Credits Required 129
**Only one (CHE 346, CEE 326, ECS 222, ELE 231 or MAE 251) is required, the other must be Technical Elective

