Writing Minor
Minor Coordinator
Heather Thompson, Writing Studies Academic Support Coordinator
239 H.B. Crouse
315-443-1047
hethomps@syr.edu
Faculty
Lois Agnew, Patrick W. Berry, Collin Gifford Brooke, Kevin Adonis Browne, Lenny Grant, Alicia Hatcher, Krista Kennedy, Brice Nordquist, Eileen E. Schell, Tony Scott, Joseph Wilson
The Syracuse University Department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition has been a national leader in the field of rhetoric and composition for almost 30 years. Chartered in 1987, the department was at the forefront of a national trend of establishing independent academic units focused entirely on writing research and instruction. Since then, we have maintained our strong focus on introductory writing and professional communication, while expanding our scope to create an innovative curriculum that engages with writing studies at every level.
The department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition is also home to The Writing Center (H.B.Crouse 101; 315-443-5289), a resource for all writers at Syracuse University. See our web site at wrt.syr.edu for more information.
Minor in Writing Description
The minor in writing offers students the opportunity to develop expertise in writing for academic, professional, civic, and personal purposes. The coursework provides practice in writing in a range of genres, editing and style, publishing, and digital media. Courses also investigate rhetoric, information technology, the politics of language use, and language and identity.
The minor in writing is available to all undergraduates at Syracuse University. Students must have credit for WRT 105 or equivalent.
Requirements
The minor requires 18 credits:
WRT 255 - Advanced Argumentative Writing
15 WRT credits numbered 300 or above, excluding WRT 320. A list of these courses can be found on the Writing and Rhetoric, BA page under Major Requirements.
Syracuse University students usually take WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing which serves as a pre-requisite for upper-division writing courses. WRT 205 serves as a prerequisite for some upper-division writing courses.
At the upper division, students may take advanced courses in civic, researched, digital, and professional writing, in style and editing, and in creative nonfiction, as well as study rhetoric and identity, information technologies, literacy, and the politics of language and writing.
The department of Writing Studies, Rhetoric, and Composition is also home to The Writing Center (H.B. Crouse 101; 315-443-5289), a resource for all writers at Syracuse University. See our web site at wrt.syr.edu for more information.
Note:
At most, one approved non-WRT courses (3 credits) can be used toward the minor. A list of these approved courses can be found on the Writing and Rhetoric, BA page under Major Requirements.
Declaring a minor
To declare a Writing minor, students should complete the Declaration of Minor form and either email it to writing@syr.edu or bring the form to the Writing Department office (239 HBC Hall) for the signature of the minor coordinator. A copy of the form must be filed with the student’s home college.

