Sport Management, BS
Contact
Gina Pauline, Undergraduate Program Director
402 MacNaughton Hall
315-443-2630
gapaulin@syr.edu
Description
The 125-credit hour B.S. in Sport Management curriculum combines department-specific courses with professional electives and liberal arts requirements, providing students with the tools to pursue a career in sport management or graduate study. Coursework covers areas in business, marketing, management, communications, economics, technology, sponsorship, market research, societal influences and impacts, event planning and law. The program requires students to pursue a minor allowing students to tailor their studies according to their professional interests. The required 12-credit capstone provides students with valuable industry experience.
Intra University Transfer
Syracuse University students interested in an intra-University transfer into the Sport Management undergraduate program must meet the intra-University transfer requirements. To be considered eligible to transfer, students must have a minimum overall GPA of 3.5 and have completed at least 24 credits at Syracuse University (two academic semesters). Students also must have completed SPM 205 or be enrolled in the class when applying. Students must have a minimum of five semesters remaining at Syracuse University.
  Should a student meet the above criteria, they are expected to submit an application for SPM intra-university transfer; submit a current resume, and a three-page type written essay explaining the following: area of interest in sport management, desired career track; prior sport industry experience; sport related volunteer/community service, and internship experience.
  A personal interview with the SPM transfer committee may be arranged by the department after the IUT application deadline. Students who meet the criteria listed above will only be accepted into the Sport Management program on a space available basis, based on current program enrollment.
  Deadlines for applying for an Intra-University transfer are November 1st for spring admission and March 1st for fall admission.
The application is available on the Department of Sport Management website.
Student Learning Outcomes
Students will gain not only a solid background in sport marketing, sport management, sport law and sport finance but also in professional electives and the liberal arts providing students with the tools to pursue career and graduate study in sport. Upon completion of the program, students will be able to:
1. Explain, discuss, and analyze core areas of sport management.
2. Analyze data from the sport industry and prepare recommendations for business decisions within sport organizations.
3. Demonstrate the ability to use sport management concepts in written and oral communication. 
4. Classify technology appropriate for use in the sport industry.
5. Develop critical thinking and problem-solving skills necessary for careers in the sport industry. 
6. Integrate the knowledge and skills learned in the core content areas to professional settings.
Program Requirements
Communication Skills (12 credits)
WRT 105 - WRT 105 - Studio 1: Practices of Academic Writing
WRT 205 - WRT 205 - Studio 2: Critical Research and Writing
WRT 307 - Advanced Writing Studio: Professional Writing
CRS 325 - Presentational Speaking
Quantitative Skills (11 credits)
MAT 221 - Elementary Probability and Statistics I
MAT 284 - Business Calculus
MAX 201 - Quantitative Methods for the Social Sciences
Natural Science (4 credits)
Natural Science (must include a lab) (4 credits)
Foreign Language/Humanities Requirement (12 credits)
Students satisfy the foreign language requirement for the Sport Management program by demonstrating that they have achieved a certain level of competence in a language other than English by either:
1.Completing a 4-credit language course numbered 201, or a 3- or 4-credit languagecourse numbered 202 or higher; or
2.Demonstrating Competence - Students who successfully complete an approved examination testing aural, reading, and composition skills meet the requirement. Petitions for an examination should be submitted to the specific language coordinator; or
3.International Students - Students whose native language is not English may petition to have the language requirement fulfilled by their knowledge of their natural language.
Beginners can complete the language requirement with a sequence of three 4-credit courses numbered 101, 102, and 201. Each of these courses includes four hours of class and two hours of independent laboratory work in a computer or audio/visual cluster weekly.

Note: Students who fulfill the foreign language requirement by petition or test into, and complete, a 3 or 4 credit language course numbered 201 or higher, will take additional Humanities courses to constitute the necessary credits to have fulfilled 63 liberal arts credits.
Social Science Division (12 credits)
ECN 101 - Introductory Microeconomics
ECN 102 - Introductory Macroeconomics
Social Science elective (6 credits)
Additional Liberal Arts Courses (6 credits)
University Requirement (1 credit)
In addition to FYS 101, the BS in Sport Management requires completion of an IDEA course (chosen from a select list) - The IDEA course may count as a liberal arts, departmental course, or elective depending on the course chosen. Please see the undergraduate course catalog for a full listing of IDEA courses.
FYS 101 - First Year Seminar
General Skills (6 credits)
ACC 201 - Essentials of Accounting
FIN 301 - Essentials of Finance
Program Requirements (43 credits)
SPM 201 - Professional Development in Sport Management
SPM 205 - Principles and Contemporary Issues in Sport Management
SPM 215 - Principles of Sales in Sport
SPM 225 - Managing the Sport Organization
SPM 245 - Race, Gender, and Diversity in Sport Organizations
SPM 325 - Sport Communications
SPM 345 - Technology in Sport Management
SPM 365 - Sport Economics
SPM 395 - Psycho-Social Issues of Sport
SPM 415 - Sport Law
SPM 444 - Sports Marketing Management
SPM 455 - Senior Sport Management Capstone
Sport Management Degree Requirements
Students must also complete a minor (18 credits) as part of the Sport Management degree requirements.
Total Credits: 125

