African American Studies, BA
Department Chair:
Vlad Dima
Professor and Chair
Email: aas@syr.edu 
315 443-4302
Faculty
Joan Bryant, Horace Campbell, Kishi Animashaun Ducre,  Herbert Ruffin II, S.N. Sangmpam
This interdisciplinary department offers the opportunity for study, research, and community involvement in African American Studies and enables students to explore cultural, literary, historical, political, socioeconomic and other issues affecting African Americans, as well as links with continental Africa and the Caribbean. The department offers a minor and a major, leading to a B.A. degree, and  enables students to explore the field through courses in the social sciences and the humanities. Students seeking a B.A. degree in African American Studies must successfully complete AAS 112 /ANT 112  before formal admission to the major.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
  Student Learning Outcomes
1. Explain major cultural figures, texts, expression, and movements in Black Studies
2. Explain knowledge of major social and political issues in Black Studies
3. Develop knowledge of major social, cultural, & political factors that have defined the Black experience across time and/or space (Diasporic orientation)
4. Learn how race, class, gender, and/or sexualities functions within the contours of the Black experience (intersectionality)
5. Develop critical thinking skills applicable to issues in Black Studies
6. Develop ability to conceive & execute independent inquiries in Black Studies
7. Develop effective written and oral communications
Prerequisite
Students must complete the prerequisite before admission to the major (3 credits)

 AAS 112 - Introduction to African American Studies
Core Credits (15 Credits)
ONE course is required from each GROUP
GROUP A:  LITERATURE  (Choose One)

AAS 231 - African American Literature to 1900: An Introduction 

AAS 232 - African American Literature: Twentieth and Twenty-First Centuries  
GROUP B:  ART, MUSIC, RELIGION  (Choose One)
AAS 206 - Introduction to African American Music 

AAS 345 - African American Religious History 

AAS 361 - Art of the Black World 
GROUP C:  HISTORY  (Choose One)

AAS 332 - African American History: Through the 19th Century 

AAS 333 - African American History: After the 19th Century 
GROUP D:  POLITICAL SCIENCE & SOCIOLOGY  (Choose One)

AAS 306 - African American Politics 

AAS 309 - Race, Gender and Sexuality in the African Diaspora  

AAS 341 - Politics of Africa 

AAS 353 - Sociology of the African American Experience  
GROUP E:  MAJOR CAPSTONE  
AAS 401 - Research in African American Studies 
Electives (12 Credits)
Students must complete twelve elective credits of AAS courses for the major.  Students who take two 200-level courses in the AAS Core may not count more than one 200-level elective course toward the AAS major.

