Finance, BS
Contact:
Office of Undergraduate Programs, 215 Whitman School of Management, 315-443-2361
Faculty
Amber Anand, Kivanc Avrenli, Tom Barkley, Si Cheng, Anna Chernobai, Fernando Diz, Erasmo Giambona, Candace Jens, Roger Koppl, Peter E. Koveos, Sue Long, Ricardo Lopez Aliouchkin, Milena Petrova, Penelope Pooler Eisenbies, James Seward, Yu Shan, Ravi Shukla, Fatma Sommez-Leopold, A. Joseph Warburton, David Weinbaum, Lai Xu, Tianyue Zhao
The study and understanding of finance is an integral component of decision-making in all areas and levels of management. Finance is a global, dynamic, and exciting discipline. It offers a unique blend of theory and practical applications. To prepare themselves for the study of finance, students should pay special attention to economics, accounting, and quantitative methods. The competitive nature of the field also necessitates a deep commitment and the appropriate work ethic. Since finance is a forward- looking discipline, those wishing to pursue a finance career should be willing to function in a world full of challenges and uncertainty. Whether it entails working on Wall Street or for a multinational company in Shanghai, the profession offers opportunities that can be both intellectually and professionally rewarding.
Offerings include courses in financial management, investments, the security market, international finance, distress investing, portfolio management, and financial institutions.
Student Learning Outcomes
In addition to the comprehensive learning outcomes listed in the Whitman School’s Undergraduate Education description, students in this major are expected to achieve the following additional learning outcomes:
1. Understand a corporation’s financing choices and decisions
2. Be able to value securities and combine them into optimal portfolios that maximize return while controlling for risk
Major Requirements
In addition to the FIN 256 core requirement, students majoring in finance must take the following courses (credit hours in parentheses):
Junior and Senior Year
FIN 345 - Financial Management (3)
FIN 346 - Investments (3)
FIN electives number 400+ (9)
Business Elective (3)
Finance electives may be chosen from the following:
FIN 400 - Selected Topics
FIN 452 - Working Capital Management
FIN 453 - New and Emerging Markets
FIN 454 - Financial Analytics
FIN 457 - Internatl Financial Manag
FIN 458 - Fin Instns/Portfolio Mgmt
FIN 459 - Introduction to Derivatives
FIN 460 - Fixed Income Securities
FIN 461 - Financial Modeling
FIN 462 - Corporate Restructurings
FIN 463 - Model Building for Investment Banking, Equity Research, and Credit Analysis
FIN 464 - Institutional Trading
FIN 465 - The Securities Market
FIN 466 - Value Investing
FIN 468 - Seminar in Finance
FIN 469 - Distress Investing
FIN 471 - Financial Instit & Mkts
FIN 473 - Control Investing

