Geology, BS
Gregory D. Hoke, Chair
204 Heroy Geology Laboratory
315-443-2672
earthenvsciences@syr.edu
Faculty
Suzanne Baldwin, Tripti Bhattacharya,  Melissa Chipman, Daniel Curewitz, Paul Fitzgerald, Gregory Hoke, Linda Ivany, Christopher Junium, Jeffrey Karson, Christa Kelleher, Laura Lautz, Zunli Lu, Robert Moucha, Cathryn Newton, Scott Samson, Christopher Scholz, Jay Thomas, Sam Tuttle, Tao Wen
The study of geology provides insights into some of humanity’s deepest questions. How was the planet Earth, our lifeboat in space, formed? What are the processes that have shaped the Earth - its surface and internal structure? How has life, of which humanity is a part, evolved? Why are there earthquakes, volcanoes, mountain chains, continents, and deep oceans? How has the surface and climate of the Earth changed through time? The study of geology is made up of  interdisciplinary fields in the Earth sciences that draw on fundamental knowledge in physics, chemistry, biology, and mathematics and provides a basis for understanding natural hazards, climate variability and global change, and exploring for the energy, water and mineral resources upon which society depends. The BS in geology offers a solid foundation for students interested in pursuing advanced degrees in the Earth sciences and/or careers as research scientists in public, corporate, or academic settings.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Dual Enrollments:
Students dually enrolled in Newhouse* and Arts and Sciences|Maxwell will complete a minimum of 122 credits, with at least 90 credits in Arts and Sciences|Maxwell coursework and an Arts and Sciences|Maxwell major.
*Students dually enrolled in the College of Arts and Sciences|Maxwell as first year students must complete the Liberal Arts Core. Students who transfer to the dual program after their first year as singly enrolled students in the Newhouse School will satisfy general requirements for the dual degree program by completing the Newhouse Core Requirements.
Student Learning Outcomes
Explain process-based linkages among tectonics, climate, and life as illustrated by the Earth system over time.
Analyze and interpret general patterns in the history of the Earth-life system using geological records and analytical and/or numerical tools.

Identify and describe the major rock-forming minerals and relate the origin of the three major rock types.

Infer depositional processes and environments from field and lab observations of sedimentary systems.

Describe tectonic processes and their manifestations in Earth’s crust, including seismicity, volcanism, and deformation.

Effectively synthesize published literature related to geological sciences in a written report and/or a data product.

Develop written and verbal communication skills required to effectively convey science to a wide range of audiences
Requirements for B.S. Degree in Geology
The BS degree in Geology requires at least 69 credits of Earth and Environmental Science course work including auxiliary math and science coursework.
Introductory Earth Science Courses
4 credits
EAR 105 - Earth Science
and
EAR 104 - Earth Sciences Laboratory
Note: EAR 104 is the laboratory course for EAR 105 and must be taken concurrently.
Or
EAR 203 - Earth System Science
Sequence Earth Science Course
4 credits
EAR 210 - History of Earth and Life
Required Ancillary Sciences and Mathematics
22 - 24 credits
CHE 106 - General Chemistry Lecture I and
CHE 107 - General Chemistry Laboratory I
 CHE 116 - General Chemistry Lecture II and
CHE 117 - General Chemistry Laboratory II
 PHY 211 - General Physics I and
PHY 221 - General Physics Laboratory I
 PHY 212 - General Physics II
and
PHY 222 - General Physics Laboratory II
Any combination of Calculus I and Calculus II from the following list:
MAT 285 - Life Sciences Calculus I
MAT 286 - Life Sciences Calculus II
MAT 295 - Calculus I
MAT 296 - Calculus II
Introduction to Earth and Environmental Science Skills Set
4 credits
EAR 201 - Introduction to Earth and Environmental Data Analysis
EAR 204 - Introduction to Field Methods in Earth and Environmental Sciences
Core Courses in Geology
15 credits
EAR 314 - Mineralogy
EAR 317 - Sedimentary Processes and Systems
EAR 333 - Structural Geology
EAR 417 - Geochemistry
Department Colloquium
1 credit
EAR 483 - Departmental Colloquium
(taken in Junior or Senior Year)
Divisions of Earth Sciences
12 - 15 credits
Choose one from each block. Other courses may be substituted by petition.
Block 1: Solid Earth
EAR 403 - Geomorphology
EAR 418 - Petrology
EAR 431 - Plate Tectonics
EAR 435 - Geophysics
Block 2: Water Science
EAR 311 - Environmental Geophysics
EAR 401 - Hydrogeology
EAR 413 - Physical Hydrology
EAR 419 - Environmental Aqueous Geochemistry
Block 3: Ancient Climates and Ecosystems
EAR 325 - Introduction to Paleobiology
EAR 405 - Global Change:Geologic Record
EAR 415 - Introduction to Climate Dynamics
Block 4: Quantitative Skills
EAR 402 - Numerical Methods in Geosciences
EAR 410 - Applications of GIS in the Earth Sciences
Department Electives
3 credits


Any lower or upper-division EAR or approved auxiliary science or math course(s)
Summer Field Experience
(4-6 cr., by transfer, as approved field experience)   This requirement consists of 6 credit hours of transfer credit as EAR 470. The requirement is satisfied by participation in an approved 4-6-week summer geological field camp, or through an alternative approved field program. The field experience is typically scheduled in the summer between junior and senior years, but completion of the requirement during the summer following graduation is also possible. Participation in the SU Abroad ‘Frontiers Abroad’ semester program in New Zealand also satisfies the field experience requirement.  For enrollment in a traditional geological field camp, courses in Structural Geology and Sedimentary Geology may be required.
EAR 470 - Experience Credit
Requirements For Distinction
GPA Within Department 3.6
Overal GPA, by end of senior year of 3.4
Other Criteria Required for the Degree with Distinction:
Students must complete a research-based senior thesis in conjunction with a faculty supervisor. The thesis must constitute independent, hypothesis-driven research involving investigative tools and techniques in the Earth Sciences. Students must submit the written thesis to the department and give a public seminar reporting their results. Students should register for EAR 409 - Senior Thesis in Earth Science in the semester in which they plan to submit the thesis. All else being satisfied, Distinction is conferred following a vote of approval from the Faculty of the Department of Earth and Environmental Sciences.

