Modern Foreign Language, BA
Contact: 
Gail Bulman, Associate Professor of Spanish; 308 HBC; 443-5385; gabulman@syr.edu
36 credits in courses numbered 202 and above in two of the following languages: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Russian, and Spanish. Normally students will take 18 credits in each of the two languages. However, they may petition to take 21 credits in one language and 15 in the other.
Students may be able to petition to pursue courses in a language other than Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Russian, and Spanish. Students interested in this option should consult with the Modern Foreign Language advisor as early as possible.
Modern Foreign Language majors are strongly encouraged to spend a semester or a year abroad.
For all Arts and Sciences|Maxwell students, successful completion of a bachelor’s degree in this major requires a minimum of 120 credits, 96 of which must be Arts and Sciences|Maxwell credits, completion of the Liberal Arts Core requirements, and the requirements for this major that are listed below.
Student Learning Outcomes
1. Speaking:  Students can express themselves in the two chosen languages on a number of subjects of practical and intellectual relevance.  They can engage in conversations on complex ideas and are able to narrate and describe in the major time frames
2. Reading:  Students can comprehend the main ideas and supporting details of complex narrative and descriptive texts
3. Listening:  Students can comprehend a broad range of subjects of practical and intellectual relevance
4. Writing:  Students can write narrative and descriptive texts using different tenses and expressing their points of view
5. Literary/Cultural Competence:  Students can describe and compare the literatures and cultures associated with the two chosen languages
Major Requirements
The major requires 36 credits in courses numbered 202 and above in two of the following languages: Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Russian, and Spanish. Normally students will take 18 credits in each of the two languages. However, they may petition to take 21 credits in one language and 15 in the other.
Students may be able to petition to pursue courses in a language other than Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Italian, Russian, and Spanish. Students interested in this option should consult with the Modern Foreign Language advisor as early as possible.
Modern Foreign Language majors are strongly encouraged to spend a semester or a year abroad.

